{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang2057\deflangfe2057{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f34\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f379\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f377\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f378\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f380\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f381\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f382\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f383\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f384\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}{\f385\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Vietnamese);}
{\f386\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Thai);}{\f399\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f397\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f398\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}
{\f400\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f401\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f402\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f403\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}
{\f404\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}{\f405\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Vietnamese);}{\f406\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Thai);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\loch\f34\hich\af34\dbch\af34\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}{\*\cs16 \additive \ul\cf2 
\sbasedon10 Hyperlink;}{\*\cs17 \additive \ul\cf12 \sbasedon10 FollowedHyperlink;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid16649301}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2930;}{\info{\title APPENDIX IV}{\author Olwen.Myhill}{\operator Evans}{\creatim\yr2004\mo7\dy14\hr11\min12}
{\revtim\yr2004\mo7\dy14\hr11\min12}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords1379}{\nofchars7862}{\*\company University of London}{\nofcharsws9223}{\vern16443}}\paperw11906\paperh16838 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\rsidroot16649301 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\loch\af34\hich\af34\dbch\af34\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\insrsid16649301 \hich\af0\dbch\af34\loch\f0 APPENDIX IV

\par \hich\af0\dbch\af34\loch\f0 EARLIER COUNTY LISTS AND MAPS OF MARKETS AND FAIRS, PUBLISHED AND UNPUBLISHED}{\f0\insrsid16649301 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid16649301 
\par These vary widely in the sources used and in the chronological range covered. Some provide very little information, with no details of the sources used.}{\field\fldedit{\*\fldinst {\super\insrsid16649301  HYPERLINK "http://www.history.ac.uk/cmh/gaz/" \\
l "fn1" }}{\fldrslt {\cs16\ul\super\insrsid16649301 1}}}{\insrsid16649301  
\par 
\par At the final stage of this project, the evidence compiled for the Gazetteer was checked against the county lists not marked with an asterisk.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 I. England}{\b\insrsid16649301 
\par 
\par Berkshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 J. Dils ed., }{\i\insrsid16649301 An Historical Atlas of Berkshire}{\insrsid16649301  (Reading, 1998), esp. pp. 24-5.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Buckinghamshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 M. Reed, 'Markets and fairs in medieval Buckinghamshire', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Records of Buckinghamshire}{\insrsid16649301  (1978) 20, pp. 563-585.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Cambridgeshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 An unpublished list drawn up by M. Siraut is held at the county record office.*
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Cheshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 D. Sylvester and G. Nulty eds., }{\i\insrsid16649301 An Historical Atlas of Cheshire}{\insrsid16649301  (Cheshire Community Council, 1958), esp. p. 27. 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Cornwall
\par }{\insrsid16649301 A. Preston-Jones and P. Rose, 'Medieval Cornwall', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Cornish Archaeology}{\insrsid16649301 , 25 (1986), esp. pp. 163-5.
\par J. Whetter, }{\i\insrsid16649301 Cornwall in the Thirteenth Century}{\insrsid16649301  (Gorran, 1998).
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Cumberland
\par }{\insrsid16649301 R.H. Britnell, 'Boroughs, markets and trade in northern England, 1000-1216' in R.H. Britnell and J. Hatcher eds., }{\i\insrsid16649301 Progress and Problems in Medieval England}{\insrsid16649301  (Cambridge, 1996).
\par A.J.L. Winchester, }{\i\insrsid16649301 Landscape and Society in Medieval Cumbria}{\insrsid16649301  (Edinburgh, 1987).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid16649301 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\insrsid16649301 Derbyshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 B.E. Coates, 'The origin and distribution of markets and fairs in medieval Derbyshire', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Derbyshire Archaeological Journal}{\insrsid16649301  (1965) 85, pp. 92-111.
\par C.R. Hart, }{\i\insrsid16649301 The North Derbyshire Archaeological Survey to AD 1500}{\insrsid16649301  (Chesterfield, 1981) esp. p. 139 and fig. 10:8.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Devon
\par }{\insrsid16649301 R. Kain and W. Ravenhill eds., }{\i\insrsid16649301 Historical Atlas of South-West England}{\insrsid16649301  (Exeter, 1999).
\par M. Kowaleski, }{\i\insrsid16649301 Local Markets and Regional Trade in Medieval Exeter}{\insrsid16649301  (Cambridge, 1995).
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Dorset
\par }{\insrsid16649301 K.J. Penn, }{\i\insrsid16649301 Historic Towns in Dorset}{\insrsid16649301 , Monograph Series Number 1, Dorset Natural History and Archaeological Society (Dorchester, 1980).
\par W. Shipp and J.W. Hodson eds., }{\i\insrsid16649301 History and Antiquities of the County of Dorset by John Hutchins}{\insrsid16649301 , third edition volume 1. (Westminster, 1861-70), pp. lvi-lvii.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Durham
\par }{\i\insrsid16649301 An Historical Atlas of County Durham}{\insrsid16649301 , Durham Local History Society (Hexham, 1992).
\par R.H. Britnell, 'Boroughs, markets and trade in northern England, 1000-1216' in R.H. Britnell and J. Hatcher eds., }{\i\insrsid16649301 Progress and Problems in Medieval England}{\insrsid16649301  (Cambridge, 1996), pp. 46-67.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Essex
\par }{\insrsid16649301 R.H. Britnell, 'Essex markets before 1350', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Essex Archaeology and History}{\insrsid16649301  13 (1981), pp. 15- 21.
\par W. Walker, }{\i\insrsid16649301 Essex Markets and Fairs}{\insrsid16649301 , Essex Record Office (Chelmsford, 1981).
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Gloucestershire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 H.P.R. Finberg, 'The Genesis of Gloucestershire Towns', in H.P.R. Finberg ed., }{\i\insrsid16649301 Gloucestershire Studies}{\insrsid16649301  (Leicester, 1957), pp. 86-8.
\par R.H. Hilton, }{\i\insrsid16649301 A Medieval Society: the West Midlands at the End of the Thirteenth Century}{\insrsid16649301  (Cambridge, 1983), esp. p. 172. 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Hampshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 P.A. Stamper, }{\i\insrsid16649301 Medieval Hampshire: Studies in Landscape History}{\insrsid16649301 , unpublished PhD thesis, Southampton University (1983), pp. 36-9.*
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Herefordshire
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid16649301 J. O'Donnell, 'Market Centres in Herefordshire 1200-1400', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Transactions of the Woolhope Naturalists' Field Club}{\insrsid16649301 
 40 (1971).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid16649301 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Hertfordshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 There is an unpublished list drawn up by a member of staff at the county record office.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Huntingdon
\par }{\insrsid16649301 J. Masschaele, }{\i\insrsid16649301 A Regional Economy in Medieval England}{\insrsid16649301 , unpublished PhD thesis, University of Toronto (1989).*
\par J. Masschaele, }{\i\insrsid16649301 Peasants, Merchants and Markets: inland trade in medieval England, 1150-1350}{\insrsid16649301  (New York, 1997). 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Kent
\par }{\insrsid16649301 B. McLain, 'Factors in market establishment in medieval England: the evidence from Kent, 1086-1350' }{\i\insrsid16649301 Archaeologia Cantiana}{\insrsid16649301  (1997).
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Lancashire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 G.H. Tupling, 'An Alphabetical List of the Markets and Fairs of Lancashire recorded before 1701' , }{\i\insrsid16649301 Transactions of the Lancashire and Cheshire Antiquarian Society}{\insrsid16649301  51 (1936), pp. 86-110.*
\par G.H. Tupling, 'Early Lancashire Markets and their Folk', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Transactions of the Lancashire and Cheshire Antiquarian Society}{\insrsid16649301  50 (1934), pp. 107-37.*
\par G.H. Tupling, 'Markets and Fairs in medieval Lancashire', in J.G. Edwards ed., }{\i\insrsid16649301 Historical Essays in Honour of James Tait}{\insrsid16649301  (Manchester, 1933), pp. 345-56.
\par G.H. Tupling, 'Lancashire Markets in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Transactions of the Lancashire and Cheshire Antiquarian Society}{\insrsid16649301  58 (1945-6), pp. 1- 34.*
\par G.H. Tupling, 'Lancashire Markets in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth Centuries', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Transactions of the Lancashire and Cheshire Antiquarian Society}{\insrsid16649301  59 (1947), pp. 1- 34.*
\par G.H. Tupling, 'The origin of markets and fairs in medieval Lancashire', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Transactions of the Lancashire and Cheshire Antiquarian Society}{\insrsid16649301  49 (1933), pp. 75-110.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Leicestershire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 J.W. Kelley, }{\i\insrsid16649301 The Medieval Markets and Fairs of Leicestershire}{\insrsid16649301 , MA thesis, University of Leicester (1985).
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Lincolnshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 S. Bennett and N. Bennett eds., }{\i\insrsid16649301 An Historical Atlas of Lincolnshire }{\insrsid16649301 (Hull, 1993) esp. D. Roffe 'Towns and Markets in the Middle Ages' pp. 42-4 and R. Ambler 'Markets and Fairs 1086-1792' pp. 52-4.

\par G. Platts, }{\i\insrsid16649301 Land and People in Medieval Lincolnshire}{\insrsid16649301  (Lincoln, 1985), esp. pp. 296-304.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Norfolk
\par }{\insrsid16649301 D.P. Dymond, 'Medieval and later markets' in P. Wade-Martins ed., }{\i\insrsid16649301 An Historical Atlas of Norfolk}{\insrsid16649301  (Norwich, 1993).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid16649301 D.P. Dymond, }{\i\insrsid16649301 The Norfolk Landscape}{\insrsid16649301  (London, 1985), pp. 152-5.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid16649301 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Northamptonshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 P. Goodfellow, 'Medieval markets in Northamptonshire', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Northamptonshire Past and Present}{\insrsid16649301 , 7 (1987-88).
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Northumberland
\par }{\insrsid16649301 R.H. Britnell, 'Boroughs, markets and trade in northern England, 1000-1216' in R.H. Britnell and J. Hatcher eds., }{\i\insrsid16649301 Progress and Problems in Medieval England}{\insrsid16649301  (Cambridge, 1996), pp. 46-67.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Nottinghamshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 T. Unwin, 'Rural Marketing in Medieval Nottinghamshire', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Journal of Historical Geography}{\insrsid16649301  7 (1981), pp. 231-51.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Oxfordshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 D. Postles, 'Markets for Rural Produce in Oxfordshire, 1086-1350', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Midland History}{\insrsid16649301  12 (1987), pp. 14-26.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Shropshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 D. Sylvester, }{\i\insrsid16649301 The Rural Landscape of the Welsh Borderland}{\insrsid16649301  (London, 1969), esp. pp. 125-7.
\par }{\i\insrsid16649301 VCH Shropshire }{\insrsid16649301 4 (1989), esp. p. 66. 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 
\par Staffordshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 D.M. Palliser and A.C. Pinnock, 'The Markets of Medieval Staffordshire', }{\i\insrsid16649301 North Staffordshire Journal of Field Studies}{\insrsid16649301  2 (1971), pp. 49-63.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Somerset
\par }{\insrsid16649301 I. Fitzroy H. Jones, 'Somerset fairs', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Proceedings of the Somerset Archaeological and Natural History Society}{\insrsid16649301  91 (1945), pp. 71-81.
\par N.F. Hulbert, 'A survey of Somerset fairs', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Proceedings of the Somerset Archaeological and Natural History Society}{\insrsid16649301  82 (1936), pp. 82-159.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Suffolk
\par }{\insrsid16649301 N. Scarfe, 'Markets and fairs in medieval Suffolk: a provisional list', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Suffolk Review}{\insrsid16649301 , 3 (1965) pp. 4-11.
\par N. Scarfe, 'Medieval and Later Markets, Medieval and Later Fairs', in D. Dymond and N. Scarfe eds., }{\i\insrsid16649301 An Historical Atlas of Suffolk}{\insrsid16649301 , Suffolk County Council and Suffolk Institute of Archaeology and History (1988).

\par N. Scarfe, }{\i\insrsid16649301 The Suffolk Landscape }{\insrsid16649301 (1972).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid16649301 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\insrsid16649301 Surrey
\par }{\insrsid16649301 M. Mate, 'The Rise and Fall of Markets in South East England', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Canadian Journal of History}{\insrsid16649301 , 31 (1996), pp. 59-86.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Sussex
\par }{\insrsid16649301 K. Leslie and B. Short eds., }{\i\insrsid16649301 An Historical Atlas of Sussex}{\insrsid16649301  (Chichester, 1999), esp. the map of markets drawn by John Bleach.
\par M. Mate, 'The Rise and Fall of Markets in South East England', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Canadian Journal of History}{\insrsid16649301 , 31 (1996), pp. 59-86.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Warwickshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 W. Barker, 'Warwickshire Markets', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Warwickshire History}{\insrsid16649301 , 6 (1986), pp. 161-75.
\par R.H. Hilton, }{\i\insrsid16649301 A Medieval Society: the West Midlands at the End of the Thirteenth Century}{\insrsid16649301  (reissued Cambridge University Press, 1983), esp. p. 172.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Westmorland
\par }{\insrsid16649301 R.H. Britnell, 'Boroughs, markets and trade in northern England, 1000-1216', in R.H. Britnell and J. Hatcher eds., }{\i\insrsid16649301 Progress and Problems in Medieval England}{\insrsid16649301  (Cambridge, 1996), pp. 46-67.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Wiltshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 A. Kondo, 'The Rise of the Market Economy in Rural Wiltshire, 1086-1461', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Studies in Market History}{\insrsid16649301  5 (1988), pp. 35-53.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Worcestershire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 R.C. Gaut, }{\i\insrsid16649301 A History of Worcestershire Agriculture and Rural Evolution}{\insrsid16649301  (1939), pp. 39-41.
\par R.H. Hilton, }{\i\insrsid16649301 A Medieval Society: the West Midlands at the End of the Thirteenth Century}{\insrsid16649301  (reissued Cambridge University Press, 1983), esp. p. 172.
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Yorkshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 R.H. Britnell, 'Boroughs, markets and trade in northern England, 1000-1216' in R.H. Britnell and J. Hatcher eds., }{\i\insrsid16649301 Progress and Problems in Medieval England}{\insrsid16649301  (Cambridge, 1996), pp. 46-67.
\par K.L. McCutcheon, 'Yorkshire Fairs and Markets to the end of the Eighteenth century' }{\i\insrsid16649301 Thoresby Society}{\insrsid16649301  39 (1940).
\par H. Richardson, }{\i\insrsid16649301 Medieval Fairs and Markets of York}{\insrsid16649301  (York, 1961).
\par S. Neave and S. Ellis eds., }{\i\insrsid16649301 An Historical Atlas of East Yorkshire}{\insrsid16649301  (Hull, 1996).
\par B. Waites, 'Medieval fairs and markets in north-east Yorkshire', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Ryedale Historian}{\insrsid16649301 , 11 (1982), pp. 3- 10.*
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\insrsid16649301 II. Wales 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\b\insrsid16649301 
\par }{\insrsid16649301 R.A. Griffiths, }{\i\insrsid16649301 Boroughs of Medieval Wales}{\insrsid16649301  (Cardiff, 1978).
\par W. Rees, }{\i\insrsid16649301 An Historical Atlas of Wales}{\insrsid16649301  (Cardiff, 1951)
\par I. Soulsby, }{\i\insrsid16649301 The Towns of Medieval Wales}{\insrsid16649301  (Phillimore, 1983).
\par D. Sylvester, }{\i\insrsid16649301 The Rural Landscape of the Welsh Borderland }{\insrsid16649301 (London, 1969).
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Denbighshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 D. Pratt has articles in }{\i\insrsid16649301 Clwyd Historian}{\insrsid16649301 , 6 (May 1980) and 7 (October 1980).* 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Montgomeryshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 D. Jenkins ed., }{\i\insrsid16649301 The Historical Atlas of Montgomeryshire}{\insrsid16649301  (Welshpool, 1999).*
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Radnorshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 W.H. Howse, 'The old fairs of Radnorshire and its borders', }{\i\insrsid16649301 Transactions of the Radnorshire Society}{\insrsid16649301 , 17 (1947).*
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid16649301 Pembrokeshire
\par }{\insrsid16649301 B. Howells ed., }{\i\insrsid16649301 Elizabethan Pembrokeshire: the evidence of George Owen,}{\insrsid16649301  Pembrokeshire Record Series 2 (1973).
\par D. Miles ed., }{\i\insrsid16649301 The Description of Pembrokeshire by George Owen of Henllys}{\insrsid16649301  (Llandysul, 1994).
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid16649301 1. See Introduction: Sources}{\insrsid16649301 .}{\insrsid16649301 
\par }}