{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang2057\deflangfe2057{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f34\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial Unicode MS;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset128\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}@Arial Unicode MS;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f379\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Western;}
{\f377\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f378\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}{\f380\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f381\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Tur;}
{\f382\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f383\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}{\f384\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}{\f385\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Vietnamese);}
{\f386\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Arial Unicode MS (Thai);}{\f399\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Western;}{\f397\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS CE;}{\f398\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Cyr;}
{\f400\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Greek;}{\f401\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Tur;}{\f402\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Hebrew);}{\f403\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Arabic);}
{\f404\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS Baltic;}{\f405\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Vietnamese);}{\f406\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 @Arial Unicode MS (Thai);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{
\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\loch\f34\hich\af34\dbch\af34\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Normal (Web);}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid11934713}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2930;}{\info{\title APPENDIX II}{\author Olwen.Myhill}{\operator Evans}{\creatim\yr2004\mo7\dy14\hr11\min11}{\revtim\yr2004\mo7\dy14\hr11\min11}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords432}{\nofchars2463}
{\*\company University of London}{\nofcharsws2890}{\vern16443}}\paperw11906\paperh16838 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440
\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\rsidroot11934713 \fet0\sectd 
\linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s15\qc \li0\ri0\sb100\sa100\sbauto1\saauto1\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\loch\af34\hich\af34\dbch\af34\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\f0\insrsid11934713 \hich\af0\dbch\af34\loch\f0 APPENDIX II

\par \hich\af0\dbch\af34\loch\f0 GENERAL GRANTS OR CONFIRMATIONS OF THE RIGHT TO HOLD A MARKET OR FAIR}{\f0\insrsid11934713 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11934713 
\par Because of the uncertainty concerning which places actually acquired a market or fair, this material was not entered in the main body of the Gazetteer.
\par 
\par On 22 November 1214,
 the sheriff of Lincolnshire was instructed that King John had granted to H. bishop of Lincoln and his successors the right to have fairs of three or four days duration and markets once a week on all of their manors, where they wished, without damaging ne
ighbouring markets and fairs. }{\i\insrsid11934713 RLC}{\insrsid11934713 , i, p. 179b.
\par 
\par On 5 February 1227, King Henry III granted Hugh, bishop of Lincoln and his successors that no market established since the king's first coronation or to be hereafter established outside the king's demesnes sho
uld be held to the damage of any markets which the said bishop had before that coronation. }{\i\insrsid11934713 CChR}{\insrsid11934713 , 1226-57, p. 2.
\par 
\par On 17 February 1227, King Henry III granted the bishop of Bath and his successors the manor of Congresbury, Somerset. He also granted that they
 might have fairs for two or three days and markets for one day in the week in all of their manors, so that it be not to the damage of neighbouring fairs or markets. }{\i\insrsid11934713 CChR}{\insrsid11934713 , 1226-57, p. 16.
\par 
\par On 20 January 1236, King Henry III granted Jocelin, bishop of Bath 
and his successors, that no market which was set up after the king's first coronation or which should hereafter be set up without the royal demesne to the damage of any market which the said bishop had before the said coronation, should stand or be held. 
}{\i\insrsid11934713 CChR}{\insrsid11934713 , 1226-57, p. 216.
\par 
\par On 5 June 1284, King Edward I quitclaimed to John, bishop of Winchester and his successors of all the king's right in the castles and manors of Wolvsey, Farnham, Taunton, the soke of Winchester, Rimpton, Knoyle with the borough of Hi
ndon, Fonthill Bishop, Bishopstone, Downton with the borough of Marden, Crawley, Bitterne with Fawley, Ower, Stoneham and 'Penymore', Twyford with Marwell and Bishopstoke, Bishop's Waltham, Fareham with the borough, East Meon with 'Ambresham', Hambledon, 
S
utton and Ropley and 'Helleye', Old Alresford with the borough, Cheriton, Beaworth, Wield, Bentley, Esher with Norwood, Southwark, Ivinghoe, West Wycombe, Morton, Wargrave with Bishops' Waltham, Culham, 'Pillingbere', Warfield, 'Edburbery', Witney with th
e
 borough, Brightwell, Harwell, Highclere, Woodhay, Burghclere, Ashmansworth, Ecchinswell, Nova Villa, Overton with the borough, North Waltham, Droxford, Havant with the tenants of Hayling, Alverstoke with Gosport and Upton and Knoyle, with all pertaining 
thereto, with the fair of St Giles [Winchester] and all other fairs and markets in the said manors. }{\i\insrsid11934713 CChR}{\insrsid11934713 , 1257-1300, p. 274.
\par 
\par On 12 February 1462, King Edward IV granted the citizens and commonalty of Norwich that no market should be granted by the king within a circuit of five leagues of the city of Norwich. }{\i\insrsid11934713 CChR}{\insrsid11934713 , 1427-1516, p. 148.

\par }}