{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch41\stshfhich41\stshfbi0\deflang2057\deflangfe2057{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f41\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}CG Times;}{\f235\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f236\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f238\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f239\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f240\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f241\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f242\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\f243\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f41\fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid9967560}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.2930;}{\info
{\title CUMBERLAND}{\author Institute of Historical Research}{\operator Evans}{\creatim\yr2004\mo7\dy14\hr11\min15}{\revtim\yr2004\mo7\dy14\hr11\min15}{\printim\yr2002\mo6\dy11\hr17\min12}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords3200}{\nofchars18240}
{\*\company University of London}{\nofcharsws21398}{\vern16443}}\paperw11913\paperh16834\margl1798\margr1798\margt1441\margb1441 
\facingp\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\margmirror\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\fracwidth\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984
\dghshow1\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot9967560 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\fs40\insrsid9967560 CUMBERLAND
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par NB Additions of May 2004 are given in }{\b\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560 red}{\b\fs18\cf1\insrsid9967560 . These represent changes from the version of the Gazetteer published in 2003 by the List and Index Society.
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par 
\par ARTHURET}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3379 5677. 1336 Subsidy \'a323.94.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Thurs; gr 16 Feb 1307, by K Edw I to J
oan, late the wife of John Wak and Thomas, son and heir of the said John and the heirs of the said John (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1300\endash 26, p. 81). To be held at the manor.
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vf+2, Giles (1 Sept); gr 16 Feb 1307, by K Edw I to Joan, late the wife of John Wak and Thomas, son and heir of the said John and the heirs of the said John (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1300\endash 26, p. 81). To be held at the manor.
\par }\pard \qj \li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 Britnell suggests that the market (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 mercatum}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 ) and two fairs (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 feria}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 ) held by William de Stutevill at an unnamed place in Cumberland, noted in the Pipe Roll of 1200, may have been at Arthuret. It is also possible that they were at Kirkoswald, Cumberland (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 q.v.}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 ) or Longtown, Cumberland (R.H. Britnell, \lquote Boroughs, markets and trade in northern England, 1000\endash 1216\rquote , in R.H. Britnell and J. Hatcher eds., }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 
Progress and Problems in Medieval England: Essays in Honour of Edward Miller}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  (Cambridge, 1996), p. 65; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 PR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, 2 John, p. 244). William had not paid his fine for the market and fairs by 1208 (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 PR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 3 John, p. 252; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 PR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 4 John, p. 255; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 PR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 5 John, p. 254; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 PR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 9 John, p. 127; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 PR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 10 John, p. 43).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 BEWCASTLE}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3565 5746. 1336 Subsidy \'a337.41.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Mon; gr 6 Jul 1279, by K Edw I to John de Swyneburn. To be held at the manor (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 1300, p. 213). In 1292, John de Swinburne, the grantee, was holding the market (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 128).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm+2, Nativity of Mary (8 Sept); gr 6 Jul 1279, by K Edw I to John de Swyneburn. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 
1300, p. 213). In 1292, John de Swinburne, the grantee, was holding the fair (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 128).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm+2, Barnabas (11 Jun); gr 6 Jul 1279, by K Edw I to John de Swyneburn. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 
1300, p. 213). In 1292, John de Swinburne, the grantee, was holding the fair (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 128).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 BOOTLE}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3107 4884. Market town }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 .1600 (Everitt, p. 468).
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Wed; gr 24 Oct 1347, by K Edw III to John de Hudleston (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1341\endash 1417, p. 64). To be held at the manor.
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vf+2, Exaltation of the Cross (14 Sept); gr 24 Oct 1347, by K Edw III to John de Hudleston (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1341\endash 1417, p. 64). To be hel
d at the manor.
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 BRAMPTON}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3528 5610. 1336 Subsidy \'a399.16. Market town }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
.1600 (Everitt, p. 468).
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab 
(Charter) Tues; gr 31 Oct 1252, by K Hen III to Thomas de Muletone and Maud his wife. To be held at the manor of Braunton (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1226\endash 57, p. 407). In 1292, M
atilda de Multon de Gyleslaund, the grantee, was holding the market (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 126).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vf, Decollation of John the Baptist (29 Aug); gr 31 Oct 1252, by K Hen III to Thomas de Muletone and Maud his wife. To be held at the manor of Braunton (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1226\endash 57, p. 407). In 1292, Matilda de Multon de Gyleslaund, the grantee, was holding the fair (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 126).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 CARLISLE}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3399 5562. Borough 1130 (BF, p. 83). Mint 1100\endash 54. 1336 Subsidy \'a3
133.33. Roman city. Monastic and probably a commercial centre in the sevent
h to ninth centuries, subsequently with an important church. In 1092, K Wil II occupied and restored the town, bringing it under English rule. The priory of St Mary was founded in or after 1122 and became the seat of a new bishopric in 1133. Carlisle
\rquote s fortunes rested on its role as a frontier city, as a centre for silver mining and as a regional market (H. Summerson, }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 Medieval Carlisle: the city and the borders from the late eleventh to the mid\endash sixteenth century
}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , Cumberland and Westmorland Archaeological Society Extra Series, 25 (1993) pp. 24\endash 38). Market town }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
.1600 (Everitt, p. 468). Fair 1587, 15 Aug (Harrison, p. 395). See also H. Summerson, }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 Medieval Carlisle: the city and the borders from the late eleventh to the mid\endash sixteenth century}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, Cumberland and Westmorland Archaeological Society Extra Series, 25 (1993).
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M \tab }{\fs18\insrsid9967560 (Prescriptive: borough, mint) recorded 1292, }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 mercatum}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, held by burgesses of Carlisle. In 1292, the mayor and community of Carlisle unsuccessfully claimed that they had held the market since the reign of K Hen II. The market was taken into the king\rquote s hands (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 121). On 7 Feb 1352, it was stated that the citizens of Carlisle held and had held markets on Wed and Sat. K Edw III granted that the citizens and their heirs and successors should hold this and other liberties for ever (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CPR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1350\endash 4, pp. 232\endash 3).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Prescriptive) }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 nundinae}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  recorded }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
.1180. An undated grant by William de Lancaster to Gospatric son of Orm mentions the fair; Summerson dates this to }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 .1180 (J. Wilson ed., }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 The Register of the Priory of St. Bees}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , Surtees Society Publications, 126 (1915) pp. 539\endash 40; H. Summerson, }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 Medieval Carlisle: the city and the borders from the late eleventh to the mid\endash sixteenth century}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, Cumberland and Westmorland Archaeological Society Extra Series, 25 (1993), p. 64). Fair mentioned 1197 and 1202; the feast was not given (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 PR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 9 Ric I, p. 14; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 PR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 4 John, p. 243). Fair held by the burgesses of Carlisle recorded in 1292, which the mayor and community unsuccessfully claimed that they had held since the reign of K Hen II. The fair was taken into the king\rquote s hands (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 121). On 7 Feb 1352, it was stated that the citizens of Carlisle held and had held a fair on the f+15 Assumption (15 Aug). K Edw III granted that the citizens and their heirs and successors should hold
 this and other liberties for ever (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CPR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1350\endash 4, pp. 232\endash 3).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 COCKERMOUTH}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3123 5306. Borough 1260 (BF, p. 83). 1336 Subsidy \'a342.86. Possibly a borough from }{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 .1210, when the free men of Cockermouth were granted certain liberties (R.H. Britnell, \lquote Boroughs, markets and trade in northern England, 1000\endash 1216\rquote , in R.H. Britnell and J. Hatcher eds, }
{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 Progress and Problems in Medieval England}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  (Cambridge, 1996), p. 51 n. 11). Market town }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
.1600 (Everitt, p. 468). Fair 1587, Mon in Whit week; 29 Sept (Harrison, pp. 394, 396).
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Letter Close) Sat; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 mercatum}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, gr 19 May 1221, by K Hen III to W[illiam] count of Aumale. To be held at the manor until the king came of age. Notice to the sh of Cumberland (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 RLC}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , i, p. 458b). On 20 Nov 1221, the day of W. earl of Aumale
\rquote s market was changed from Sat to Mon (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 RLC}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , i, p. 481b). On 3 Sept 1227, K Hen III granted William de Forz, earl of Aumale a Mon market by charter (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, 1226\endash 57, p. 58). Order to sh of Cumberland to cause him to have the market, 5 Sept 1227 (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 RLC}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , ii, p. 199b). In 12
92, Isabella de Fortibus, countess of Aumale was holding the market in dower, by right of her late husband William de Fortibus, earl of Aumale (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 119). }{\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560 
In 1306 the farmers of the tolls at Cockermouth complained that every Sunday there was a gathering of people at Crosthwaite (also an Aumale possession, }{\i\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560 q.v}{\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560 
.) buying and selling without paying any dues to the bailiffs of Cockermouth (L.F. Salzman, \lquote The legal status of markets\rquote , }{\i\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560 The Cambridge Historical Journal}{\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560  2.3 (1928), 205\endash 
12, esp. 207).}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Prescriptive) }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 feria}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
 recorded 1292, held by Isabella de Fortibus, countess of Aumale, who was holding the fair in dower, by right of her late husband William de Fortibus, earl of Aumale. No details of the fair were given (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, p. 119).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560 CROSTHWAITE}{\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560  3437 4915. In the 
thirteenth century this was an Aumale possession and a dependency of Cokermouth (}{\i\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560 q.v}{\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560 .) more than 50 km away.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560  \tab 
(Prescriptive). In 1292 the Countess of Aumale claimed that she did not have a market here, but that on feast days the men of the neighbourhood gathered at the church and sold meat, fish and other goods; she did not take toll, stallage or any profit (}{
\i\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560 , 115). This informal market was still active in 1306 when the farmers of the tolls at Cockermouth complained that the traders did not pay any dues to Cockermouth; on that occasion the \lquote market
\rquote  at Crosthwaite was abolished (L.F. Salzman, \lquote The legal status of markets\rquote , }{\i\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560 The Cambridge Historical Journal}{\fs18\cf6\insrsid9967560  2.3 (1928), pp. 205\endash 12, esp. p. 207).}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 

\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 EGREMONT}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3011 5105. Borough }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 .1202 (BF, p. 83). 1336 Subsidy 
\'a3112.80. Thomas son of Lambert de Multon had inherited the manor from the Lucy family (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , pp. 113\endash 14). Market town }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 .1600 (Everitt, p. 468).
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab 
(Charter) Wed; gr 20 May 1267, by K Hen III to Thomas son of Lambert de Moleton. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 1300, p. 75). Market held by Thomas son of Lambert de Multon recorded in 1292 (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 114). On 4 Apr 1322, a third of the market was assigned to Eleanor, late the wife of Thomas de Multon of Egremont, in dower. The day of the market was not recorded (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CCR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1318\endash 22, p. 567).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm, Nativity of Mary (8 Sept); gr 20 May 1267, by K Hen III to Thomas son of Lambert de Moleton. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 
1300, p. 75). Fair held by Thomas son of Lambert de Multon recorded in 1292 (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 11
4). On 4 Apr 1322, a third of the fair was assigned to Eleanor, late the wife of Thomas de Multon of Egremont, in dower. The feast of the fair was not recorded (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CCR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1318\endash 22, p. 567).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 GREYSTOKE}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3443 5307. Borough 1289. Burgesses were recorded in 1359, but
 in 1472 only one burgage is evident (A.J.L. Winchester, }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 Landscape and Society in Medieval Cumbria}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  (Edinburgh, 1987), p. 122). 1336 Subsidy \'a355.47.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab 
(Charter) Mon; gr 28 Oct 1245, by K Hen III to Thomas son of William de Craystock. To be held at the manor. Mandate in pursuance to the sh of Cumberland (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1226\endash 
57, p. 288). In 1292, the market was held by John de Craystok, son of the grantee (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 119).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm, Trans of Edward (13 Oct); gr 28 Oct 1245, by K Hen III to Thomas son of William de Craystock. To be held at the manor. Mandate in pursuance to the sh of Cumberland (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1226\endash 57, p. 288). In 1292, the fair was held by John de Craystok, son of the grantee (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 119).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 HAYTON}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3508 5577. 1336 Subsidy \'a319.73. Identified in the index of the }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 
Calendar of Charter Rolls}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  as Hayton in Aspatria.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Tues; gr 18 Jan 1278, by K Edw I to Robert de Molecastre. To be held at the manor (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 1300, p. 206). In 1292, the Crown was contesting the right of William de Mulcastr to hold the market; William showed the charter and claimed to be the heir of the grantee (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 126).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm, Mary Magdalen (22 Jul); gr 18 Jan 1278, by K Edw I to Robert de Molecastre. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 
1300, p. 206). In 1292, the Crown was contesting the right of William de Mulcastr to hold the fair; William showed the charter and claimed to be the heir of the grantee (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 126).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 IREBY}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3238 5390. 1336 Subsidy \'a395. Market town }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
.1600 (Everitt, p. 468).
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Thurs; gr 29 Nov 1236, by K Hen III to William de Ireby. To be held at the manor (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1226\endash 57, p. 225). Mandate to the sh of Cumberland to proclaim the market and cause it to be held (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1234\endash 
7, p. 398). In 1292, the market was held by Robert de Brus, the elder, and Cristiana his wife, the heir of the grantee (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, p. 124). On 1 Dec 1390, the charter was confirmed by K Ric II to Peter Tilliol, tenant of the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CPR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1388\endash 92, p. 331). Market continued into the eighteenth century (A.J.L. Winchester, }{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 Landscape and Society in Medieval Cumbria }{\fs18\insrsid9967560 (Edinburgh, 1987), p. 122).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm, Matthew (21 Sept); gr 29 Nov 1236, by K Hen III to William de Ireby. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1226\endash 
57, p. 225). Mandate to the sh of Cumberland to proclaim the fair and cause it to be held (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1234\endash 
7, p. 398). On 1 Dec 1390, the charter was confirmed by K Ric II to Peter Tilliol, tenant of the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CPR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1388\endash 92, p. 331).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 KESWICK}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3267 5231. Borough 1373 (BF, p. 84). Market town }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
.1600 (Everitt, p. 468). Fair 1587, 22 Jul (Harrison, p. 395).
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Sat; gr 13 Jul 1276, by K Edw I to Thomas de Derwentewatere (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 1300, p. 200). In 1292, Thomas de Derewentwatre was holding the market (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 123).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm+2, Mary Magdalene (22 Jul); gr 13 Jul 1276, by K Edw I to Thomas de Derwentewatere (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 
1300, p. 200). In 1292, Thomas de Derewentwatre was holding the fair (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 123).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 KIRKCAMBECK}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3533 5689. In the 1334 Lay Subsidy, Kircambeck was assessed with Stapleton at \'a3
13.17 (Glasscock, p. 38).
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Tues; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 mercatum}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, gr 31 Mar 1254, by K Hen III to William de Sancto Edmundo, rector of the ch of Cambeke (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 Roles Gascons}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1242\endash 54, no. 2521; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CPR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1247\endash 
58, p. 286). 
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm, Peter and Paul the Apostles (29 Jun); }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 feria}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  gr 31 Mar 1254, by K Hen III to William de Sancto Edmundo, rector of the ch of Cambeke (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 Roles Gascons}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1242\endash 54, no. 2521; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CPR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1247\endash 58, p. 286).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 KIRKLINTON}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3433 5670. 1336 Subsidy \'a334.81.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab 
(Charter) Thurs; gr 8 Jan 1262, by K Hen III to Eustace de Balliolo and Helewis his wife and the heirs of Helewis. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 
1300, p. 39). In 1292, Richard de Kirkebride, Walter de Corry, Patrick Trumpe, Matilda de Carrigg, John de Seton, Walter de Thwynham and Gilbert de Sothayk claimed the market as the heirs of Helewis, but the }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 quo warranto}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560  jury returned a verdict of non-user (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 129).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm, Peter and Paul (29 Jun); gr 8 Jan 1262, by K Hen III to Eustace de Balliolo and Helewis his wife and the heirs of Helewis. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 1300, p. 39). In 1292, Richard de Kirkebride, Walter de Corry, Patrick Trumpe, Matilda de Carrigg, John de Seton, Walter de Thwynham and Gilbert de Sothayk claimed the fair as the heirs of Helewis, but the }{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 quo warranto}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  jury returned a verdict of non-user (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 129).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 KIRKOSWALD}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3553 5412. Borough 1272 (A.J.L. Winchester, }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 
Landscape and Society in Medieval Cumbria}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  (Edinburgh, 1987), p. 122). 1336 Subsidy \'a3154.59. Market town }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 .1600 (Everitt, p. 468).
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Thurs; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 mercatum}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, gr 1 Mar 1201, by K John to Hugh de Morevill (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 RCh}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 ,
 p. 89). In 1292, the market was held by Thomas son of Thomas de Multon de Gilleslaund, who claimed to be the heir of the grantee, although this was challenged by the Crown (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 122).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) f, Oswald (5 Aug); }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 feria}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  gr 1 Mar 1201, by K John to Hugh de Morevill (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 RCh}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, p. 89). It is assumed that the feast of the fair relates to Oswald, king of Northumbria, whose feast was also celebrated on 8 or 9 Aug. In 1292, the fair was held by Thomas son of Thomas de Multon de Gilleslaund, who claimed to be the h
eir of the grantee, although this was challenged by the Crown (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 122).
\par }\pard \qj \li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 Summerson suggests that the market (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 mercatum}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 ) and two fairs (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 feria}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 ) held by William de Stutevill at an unnamed place in Cumberland, noted in the Pipe Roll of 1200, were at Kirkoswald. It is more likely that they were at Arthuret, Cumberland (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 q.v.}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
) or perhaps at Longtown, Cumberland (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 PR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 2 John, p. 244; R.H. Britnell, \lquote Boroughs, markets and trade in northern England, 1000\endash 1216\rquote , in R.H. Britnell and J. Hatcher eds., }{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 Progress and Problems in Medieval England: Essays in Honour of Edward Miller}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  (Cambridge, 1996), p. 65; H. Summerson, }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 
Medieval Carlisle: the city and the borders from the late eleventh to the mid-sixteenth century}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , Cumberland and Westmorland Archaeological Society Extra Series, 25 (1993), p. 66).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 LIDDEL}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3403 5743. 1336 Subsidy \'a35.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Tues; gr 18 Jul 1267, by K Hen III to John de Stutevill. To be held at the manor (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 1300, p. 78). In 1292, John Wake was holding the market, as the heir of John de Stutevill (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 120).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vf+6, Exaltation of the Cross (14 Sept); gr 18 Jul 1267, by K Hen III to John de Stutevill. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 
1300, p. 78). In 1292, John Wake was holding the fair, as the heir of John de Stutevill (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 120).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 MELMERBY}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3615 5374. 1336 Subsidy \'a363.09.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Wed; gr 20 Sept 1300, by K Edw I to John de Wygeton (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 1300, p. 489). To be held at the manor.
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm, Peter ad Vincula (1 Aug); gr 20 Sept 1300, by K Edw I to John de Wygeton (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 1300, p. 489). To be held at the manor.

\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 MILLOM}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3170 4803. 1336 Subsidy \'a327.27.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Wed; gr 22 Jul 1251, by K Hen III to John de Huddleston (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1226\endash 57, p. 364). To be held at the manor.
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm, Holy Trinity (Easter dep); gr 22 Jul 1251, by K Hen III to John de Huddleston (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1226\endash 57, p. 364). To be held at the manor.

\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 NEWTON ARLOSH}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3198 5552. Borough 28 Mar 1305 (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1300
\endash 26, p. 55). 1336 Subsidy \'a355.20. Granted instead of the borough status, market and fair previously granted to Skinburness, Cumberland (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 q.v.}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
). Newton Arlosh was also known as Kirkby Johannis, which presumably related to the dedication of the ch (A.M. Armstrong ed., }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 The Place Names of Cumbria}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  (1950\endash 
2), ii, p. 291). Everitt noted a market at Holme Cultram; it is assumed that this relates to Newton Arlosh. Market town }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 .1600 (Everitt, p. 468). Grid references are to the current site of Newton Arlosh.

\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Thurs; gr 28 Mar 1305, by K Edw I to A and C of Holmcoltram (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1300\endash 26, p. 55). 
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vf+15, John the Baptist (24 Jun); gr 28 Mar 1305, by K Edw I to A and C of Holmcoltram (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1300\endash 26, p. 55).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 PENRITH}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3515 5302. Borough 1286 (BF, p. 84). 1336 Subsidy \'a3
398.15. Town developed under royal initiative in the 1220s (A.J.L. Winchester, }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 Landscape and Society in Medieval Cumbria}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  (Edinburgh, 1987), p. 122). Market town }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 .1600 (Everitt, p. 468). Fair 1587, Tues in Whit week (Harrison, p. 394).
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Letter Close) Wed; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 mercatum}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, gr 16 Oct 1222, by K Hen III (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 RLC}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , i, p. 513). To be held at the royal manor until the king came of age. Notice to the sh of Cumberland.
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Letter Close) v of Pentecost to the Mon after Holy Trinity (Easter dep), }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 feria}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  gr 16 Oct 1222, by K Hen III (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 RLC}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , i, p. 513). To be held at the royal manor until the king came of age. Notice to the sh of Cumberland.
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 RAVENGLASS}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3086 4964. Thomas son of Lambert de Multon had inherited the manor from the Lucy family (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , pp. 113\endash 14). Market town }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 .1600 (Everitt, p. 468). Fair 1587, 25 Jul (Harrison, p. 395).
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Sat; }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 mercatum}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , gr 20 
Aug 1208, by K John to Richard de Lucy. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 RCh}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 182). In 1208, Richard de Luci owed a good palfrey for the market and the fair (below) (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 PR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 10 John, p. 44). Sat market held by Thomas son of Lambert de Multon recorded in 1292, which he claimed of old (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 114).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) f, James the Apostle (25 Jul); }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 feria}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  gr 20 Aug 1208, by K John to Richard de Lucy. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 RCh}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 182). In 1208, Richard de Luci owed a good palfrey for the fair and the market (above) (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 PR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 10
 John, p. 44). Fair held by Thomas son of Lambert de Multon recorded in 1292, which he claimed of old (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
, p. 114). On 4 Apr 1322, a third of a fair (the feast of which was not specified) was assigned to Eleanor, late the wife of Thomas de Multon of Egremont, in dower (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CCR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1318\endash 22, p. 567).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 SEATON}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3018 5306. 1336 Subsidy \'a338.25. In Camerton.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Thurs; gr 24 May 1280, by K Edw I to Gilbert de Wirkinton. To be held at the manor (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 1300, p. 226). In 1292, Thomas de Culewenn, the son of the grantee, was holding the market (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 123).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm, Peter ad Vincula (1 Aug); gr 24 May 1280, by K Edw I to Gilbert de Wirkinton. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 
1300, p. 226). In 1292, Thomas de Culewenn, the son of the grantee, was holding the fair (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 123).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 SKINBURNESS}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3126 5558. Borough 12 Feb 1301 (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1300\endash 
26, p. 2). On the island of Holmcoltram in the medieval period. The market and fair were granted to replace the charter for a market and fair at the mouth of the Waver, Cumberland (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 q.v.}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
). However, the settlement at Skinburness could not have lasted long. On 28 Mar 1305, the A of Holmcoltram informed K Edw I that the greater part of the borough of Skinburness had been washed away by the sea. The king granted the A and C of Holm
cultram that their town of Newton Arlosh, Cumberland (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 q.v.}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 ) would be a free borough, with all the liberties, including the market and fair, that had previously been granted to Skinburness (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1300\endash 26, p. 55). The grid references are to the present settlement of Skinburness.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Thurs; gr 12 Feb 1301, by K Edw I to A and C of Holmcoltram (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1300\endash 26, p. 2). To be held within the borough in a place to be appointed by them.
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vf+15, John the Baptist (24 Jun); gr 12 Feb 1301, by K Edw I to A and C of Holmcoltram (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1300\endash 
26, p. 2). To be held within the borough in a place to be appointed by them.
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 WAVER}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
 3170 5519. Borough 1300 (BF, p. 84). In Holmcultram. By Mar 1305, the greater part of the borough had been destroyed by the sea. As this site was unsuitable, another charter was issued for Skinburness, Cumberland (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 q.v.}{
\fs18\insrsid9967560 ). The grid references are to the present mouth of the river Waver.
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Thurs; gr 20 Mar 1300, by K Edw I to A and C of Holmcoltram. To be held in the town of Wa
ver in Holmcultram in a place to be appointed. The charter was vacated \lquote because otherwise in the roll of the twenty\endash ninth year\rquote  (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 1300, p. 488).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vf+15, Nativity of John the Baptist (24 Jun); gr 20 Mar 1300, by K Edw I to A and C of H
olmcoltram. To be held in the town of Waver in Holmcultram in a place to be appointed. The charter was vacated \lquote because otherwise in the roll of the twenty\endash ninth year\rquote  (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257
\endash 1300, p. 488).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li284\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin284\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 WIGTON}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  3256 5483. 1336 Subsidy \'a3115.83. Market town }{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 c}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 
.1600 (Everitt, p. 468).
\par }\pard \qj \fi-284\li851\ri0\widctlpar\tx851\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin851\itap0 {\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 M}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) Tues; gr 3 Feb 1262, by K Hen III to Walter de Wigeton. To be held at the manor (}{
\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 1300, p. 40). Market held by John de Wygeton, son of the grantee, recorded in 1292 (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 116).
\par }{\b\fs18\insrsid9967560 F}{\fs18\insrsid9967560  \tab (Charter) vfm, Nativity of Mary (8 Sept); gr 3 Feb 1262, by K Hen III to Walter de Wigeton. To be held at the manor (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 CChR}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , 1257\endash 
1300, p. 40). Fair held by John de Wygeton, son of the grantee, recorded in 1292 (}{\i\fs18\insrsid9967560 QW}{\fs18\insrsid9967560 , p. 116).
\par }\pard \qj \li567\ri0\widctlpar\tx568\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\fs18\insrsid9967560 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid9967560 
\par }}