{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 
\snext0 \styrsid13185398 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx360\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid1467951 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext16 \sautoupd \styrsid10761145 Plain Text;}{\*\ts17\tsrowd\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \sbasedon11 \snext17 \styrsid8615858 Table Grid;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-294508044\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid67698691\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698693
\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880
\jclisttab\tx2880\lin2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698691\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600\lin3600 }{\listlevel
\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698693\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320\lin4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040\lin5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698691\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760\lin5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid67698693\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480\lin6480 }{\listname ;}\listid1598632094}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1598632094\listoverridecount9{\lfolevel}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}
{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat
\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}\ls1}}{\*\pgptbl {\pgp\ipgp0\itap0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid1467951\rsid1837599\rsid2785210\rsid3240535\rsid4199044\rsid4787573\rsid6772611\rsid6816974\rsid7017209\rsid8283657
\rsid8615858\rsid8726037\rsid8868318\rsid10761145\rsid10945593\rsid11551423\rsid11956016\rsid12212391\rsid12544952\rsid12652855\rsid12738150\rsid12870409\rsid13185398\rsid13764953\rsid13768609\rsid13775736\rsid13776222\rsid13793671\rsid14964512
\rsid15806094\rsid15994128}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info{\title HAMPSHIRE}{\author John Palmer}{\operator John Palmer}{\creatim\yr2007\mo7\dy5\hr9\min30}{\revtim\yr2007\mo7\dy15\hr22\min8}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords2547}
{\nofchars14521}{\*\company  University of Hull}{\nofcharsws17034}{\vern16389}}\paperw11909\paperh16834 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\viewnobound1\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15994128 
\fet0\sectd \psz9\linex0\headery706\footery706\colsx708\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid13764953\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8615858 \cbpat8 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\fs28\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid1837599 HAMPSHIRE}{\b\fs28\cf1\insrsid8615858 
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx8647\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid13775736 \cbpat8 {\cf2\insrsid13775736 (version 1a)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx8647\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8615858 \cbpat8 {\b\cf1\insrsid8615858 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8615858 \cbpat8 {\b\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 INTRODUCTION
\par 
\par THE DOMESDAY FORMAT
\par The Manuscript}{\b\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
The manuscript is written on leaves, or folios, of parchment (sheepskin) measuring about 15 inches by 11 inches (38 centimetres by 28 centimetres), on both sides. On each side, or page, are two columns, making four to each folio. The folios were numbered 
in the seventeenth century, and the four columns of each }{\cf1\insrsid8615858 are here lettered a, b, c and d}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
. The manuscript emphasises words and usually distinguishes chapters and sections by the use of red ink (rubrication); deletions are indicated by underlining (JM).}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par The List of Landholders occurs on the back of a leaf (folio 37) which is otherwise blank, though ruled with the usual vertical and horizontal lines. In Domesday this first leaf normally carries the entry for the borough, and a gap as large as 3 \'bc
 columns is rare. There is no entry for Winchester in Hampshire Domesday, and Southampton occurs in an anomalous position at the head of the Isle of Wight. In Middlesex there is no entry for London and the text is preceded by 3 \'be
 blank columns. It looks as if space were left for these cities, though the information for them was not necessarily collected. For comparison, the large entry for Oxford takes up l \'bd columns, and Southampton only \'bd
 column. It may be that it was found impossible to summarise Winchester and London in the same way as other boroughs and they were therefore omitted from Domesday. For early surveys of Winchester (}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 c}{
\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 .1110 and 1148) known as the }{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Winton Domesday}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
see the edition and discussion in Biddle, }{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Winchester in the Early Middle Ages }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 (JM). }{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par There are some unusual features in the writing of the Hampshire section of Domesday Book that can usefully be discussed here. Since Horace Round wrote his introduction to the text of }{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 VCH Hampshire}{
\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 , the study of the manuscript has been transformed by two publications. }{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Domesday Re-Bound }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 for the first time gave consideration to the make\-
up and writing of the Book; Galbraith,}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  Making of Domesday Book }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
was a major reappraisal of the nature of the information that was gathered at the Inquest, and the means that were employed to condense the returns for engrossment into the Great or Exchequer Domesday at Winchester. Using the information tabulated in }{
\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Domesday Re-Bound }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 together with Farley's text and the Ordnance Survey facsimile, a certain amount may be deduced about the wri
ting of the manuscript. But for some aspects there is no substitute for examination of the manu\-
script itself; the colour and density of the ink, erasure and over-writing, the relationship of writing to the ruled lines are all types of evidence that are on
ly apparent from the manuscript. For the purposes of this edition the manuscript was consulted to check discrepancies between Farley, the Ordnance Survey facsimile and the translation. In addition to the few Farley errors, minor features noted in the manu
script are referred to at the appro\-priate point in the text. This note is concerned with more general considerations (JM).}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 \tab Hampshire is in the first circuit in Domesday, that is the group of counties (Kent, Sussex, Surrey, Hampshire and Berkshire) whose r
eturns were made together to Winchester and bound up at the beginning of Great Domesday Book. The clearest evidence for the circuit is the common reckoning of woodland by swine renders in these counties. One circuit return still survives, the 'Little Dome
sday' for East Anglia, which was never condensed into the Exchequer volume; the }{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Liber Exoniensis}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
 or Exon Domesday represents an even earlier phase for the south-west circuit, whose return to Winchester was engrossed, but does not survive. Galbraith's studie
s have shown that the task of compiling Domesday was not merely the writing of the text, but of compressing the material at the same time (apparently the work of one man). The circuits were engrossed in groups (not necessarily in the order in which they w
ere later bound), but the counties were usually treated as separate units, each written on indi\-
vidual quires or gatherings of folded sheets of parchment. There is little doubt that the writer estimated in advance the amount of space required and wrote on gatherings of appropriate size in order to minimize wastage through leaving blank sheets (see }
{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Domesday Re-Bound}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 , Appendix}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
I, for a diagrammatic representation of this). Hampshire is unusual in that it runs to three gatherings. The first, of four sheets (fol
ios 37-45 with the half-page folio 42) carries the initial blank columns that were probably left for the City of Winchester, and the mainland text up to the middle of 23,46; the second, of three sheets (folios 46-51) carries the mainland text from 23,46 t
o chapter 69,}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 together with the New Forest section. The last gathering, of only two sheets (folios 52-55) contains South\-
ampton and the Isle of Wight; their combined text being just too long to fit onto a single bifolium, there remain 3 \'bd blank columns at the end (JM).}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 \tab The lack of an entry for Winchester, and the anomalous position of the Borough of Southampton have been discussed above }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 and see HAM S borough note. Attention}{
\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  will here be drawn to the two special sections, those for the New Forest and the Isl
e of Wight. It was suggested by Round that the New Forest section was an addition to the mainland text, added afterwards and thus cramped into an available space. This is not the only, nor the most likely interpretation of the evidence. The New Forest has
 
to be seen in the context of the whole of the mainland text. In common with the rest of circuit I all the Hampshire folios (including blanks) were given 50 horizontal rulings and 7 vertical ones. As some sections of Domesday have only 44 rulings and other
s as many as 59, the Hampshire number may represent an intermediate stage in compilation, reflecting the 'scribe's growing sense of urgency to complete his task' (Galbraith, }{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Domesday Book in Administrative History}{
\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 p. 55). Within a county,}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
the scribe's attitude can be seen from his use of the rulings, and the number of times that they are ignored. Most of Hampshire is written on the rulings, with 50 lines in each column and occasionally more or less; the main exception to this is the New Fo
r
est section. Usually a space is left at the top of each chapter for the rubricated title, and there may be one or more clear rulings above that left as well. As far as folio 47cd such gaps occur more often than not; usually of one ruling they may be as ma
ny as six (after chapter 15)}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 or seven (after chapter 14).}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
Certain portions of text (such as chapter 5a}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 or the second part of chapter 10)}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
were written subsequently over what had been spaces, so some gaps may have been left in expectation of material that would be forthcoming. (The duplicated entries at the beginning of chapter 23}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{
\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 are a special case; see HAM 23 land note.) Gaps between chapters are abandoned after chapter 40}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
on folio 48, and thereafter the text runs on beyond the rulings at the end of a column on more occasions. Before chapter 66 and chapter 67}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
no gap is left for the rubricated title at all, perhaps in order for chapter 68}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
to start at the top of the next column (folio 49c). The New Forest was reserved for the last folio of the quire (folio 51), and the textual com\-
pression of this section is an obvious feature. Quite apart from the complete lack of rubricated titles (for which no space is left), there is a dramatic increase in the number of lines written in each column. The previous folio 50c ha
d 50 lines, but in the New Forest section there are successively 55, 57, 62 and 68 lines in each column (folio 51a-d; NF1-NF9)}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
and it seems likely that the scribe then returned to the gap at the end of the previous folio (folio 50d) to write NF10 (JM).}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 \tab How certain is it that this was not an additional section added as an afterthought? There is of course the usual Landholders' List}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
at the beginning of Hampshire, both for the New Forest and the Isle of Wight. It may have been the case that when chapter 1 (the}{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  Terra Regis}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 )}{
\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
was compiled the scribe did not expect to have a separate section on the New Forest; the Forest occurs in 1,26-38, whereas the only royal entry in the New Forest section (NF1,1) is partly duplicating an earlier one. The same may have been th
e case with the Isle of Wight, though only half the royal holding appears in 1,W1-W22 whilst the remainder is in the Isle of Wight section, IoWl,l-15. However, apart from the king's land, places in the south-western hundreds only occur sporadically in the
 
mainland text outside the New Forest section, and when they do so they are usually places distant from the Forest itself. Thus at least from when chapter 2 was written, Forest material was being reserved for a separate section. The decision to separate th
e Isle of Wight must have been made already, when the second half of the king's holding was omitted from the mainland text (JM).}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 \tab The evidence of the manuscript then points not to an unexpected addition which had to be fitted in at the last moment, but to a
 section for which a whole folio had been set aside, and against which the preceding pages had been gradually compacted so that the material would fit in. The only problem was that this folio was the last one in the two gatherings intended for the mainlan
d
 text, and the scribe did not wish to run over onto the next gathering. From the beginning of the Forest section he realized that space was very short, and immediately began to compress as much as possible, gradually and evenly closing up the columns (the
 
first two do not even continue beyond the available rulings and each has a clear line). Despite this, he still had to return to the gap on folio 50d in order to finish, but continued in the same compressed style used on folio 51d, with a smaller hand and 
longer lines (JM).}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 \tab 
So the New Forest section of Domesday Hampshire is far from being an example of careless afterthought in the compilation of Domesday, and is rather a demonstration of the care and foresight employed by the scribe in its writing (JM).
\par }{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 THE HUNDREDS
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx8647\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8615858 \cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
The forms of the hundred names used in the Phillimore printed edition have been revised for the present edition to take account of their identity and survival, as follows:
\par }{\b\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }\trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx4152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid8726037\yts17 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 Phillimore printed edition}{
\fs20\lang2057\langfe2057\langfenp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 \cell }{\fs20\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 This revision}{\fs20\lang2057\langfe2057\langfenp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 \cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 \trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx4152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid8726037\yts17 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\lang2057\langfe2057\langfenp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 Andover
\par 'Ashley'
\par Barton
\par Basingstoke
\par Bentley
\par Bermondspitt
\par Boldre
\par Bosmere
\par Bountisborough
\par Broughton
\par Buddlesgate
\par Chalton
\par Chuteley
\par Crondall
\par Droxford
\par East Meon
\par 'Edgegate'
\par Evingar
\par 'Falmer
\par Fareham
\par Fawley
\par Fordingbridge
\par Hoddington
\par Holdshott
\par Hurstbourne
\par Kingsclere
\par Mainsborough
\par Mansbridge
\par Meonstoke
\par Micheldever
\par Neatham
\par Odiham
\par Overton
\par Portsdown
\par Redbridge
\par Ringwood
\par [Romsey]
\par Rowditch
\par Shirley
\par Somborne
\par Titchfield
\par Waltham
\par }{\i\fs20\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 Welford
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 Isle of Wight
\par }{\fs20\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 East Medine
\par West Medine
\par 
\par }{\i\fs20\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid8726037\yts17 {\fs20\lang2057\langfe2057\langfenp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 \cell }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl
\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid8726037\yts17 {\fs20\lang2057\langfe2057\langfenp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 Andover
\par 'Ashley'
\par Barton
\par Basingstoke
\par --------------
\par Bermondspit
\par Boldre
\par 'Bosbarrow'
\par 'Bountisborough'
\par Broughton
\par 'Buddlesgate'
\par Chalton
\par 'Chuteley'
\par Crondall
\par Droxford
\par East Meon
\par 'Edgegate'
\par 'Evingar'
\par "Falemere"
\par Fareham
\par Fawley
\par Fordingbridge
\par Hoddington
\par Holdshott
\par Hurstbourne
\par Kingsclere
\par 'Mainsborough'
\par Mansbridge
\par Meonstoke
\par Micheldever
\par Neatham
\par Odiham
\par Overton
\par Portsdown
\par Redbridge
\par Ringwood
\par ------------
\par 'Rowditch'
\par Shirley
\par Somborne
\par Titchfield
\par Waltham
\par "Welford"
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 Isle of Wight
\par }{\fs20\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 ------------
\par ------------
\par Bowcombe
\par Calbourne
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\intbl\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid8726037\yts17 {\fs20\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 "Hemreswel"}{\fs20\lang2057\langfe2057\langfenp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 \cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 \trowd \irow1\irowband1\lastrow 
\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthA3\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx4152\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8615858 \cbpat8 {\fs20\cf1\lang2057\langfe2057\langfenp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 
\par }{\cf1\lang2057\langfe2057\langfenp2057\insrsid8615858 
\par }{\cf1\lang2057\langfe2057\langfenp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }{\b\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 SPECIAL FEATURES
\par The New Forest}{\b\cf1\insrsid8615858 : }{\b\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid7017209 A bibliographical note}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Following the pioneering work of Baring, 'Making of the New Forest', Finn provided a detailed re-examination of the question in }{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Domesday Geography of South Eastern England}{
\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid6772611 ,}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  pp. 324-38. This has now been modified by further place-name identifications, and t
he suggestion that inclusion of holdings in the Forest and their consequent loss of value need not have involved depopulation so much as 'a change in land-usage from arable to pastoral' (Stagg, 'New Forest in Domesday Book', p. 22). There is now a general
 study of the ecology of the Forest in Tubbs, }{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 The New Forest}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 , whilst for the working of the medieval Forest law there is Stagg, }{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
New Forest Documents}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 , which also contains much new place-name evidence.}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 The Forest bounds are now thought to have changed little 
between Domesday and 1964; several medieval perambulations have been discovered and studied by Lloyd, 'Place-Names of Hampshire', and David Stagg (see references in Stagg, }{\i\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 New Forest Documents}{
\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 , pp. 32-35) (JM).}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }{\insrsid8615858 
\par }{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 EDITORIAL
\par State of Revision
\par }{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Hampshire was published in the Phillimore series in 1982. It was edited by Julian Munby from a draft translation prepared by Janet Mothersill, Peter Osmund and Joy Jenkyns (n\'e9
e Hubble). The maps were the work of Julian Munby }{\insrsid8615858\charrsid11551423 himself.}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  He acknowledged help and advice as follows: '}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
I wish to thank all those who have assisted in the production of this work, and especially the series editors for their patience. Fred Aldsworth provided much help with mapping and place-names. My understanding of the New Fore}{
\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid11551423 st has been greatly aided by the work of Arthur Lloyd, 'Place-Names of Hampshire',}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
 and David Stagg; the latter provided me with a map of the Forest bounds and settlements which has been invaluable. Dr E.O. Blake and Laurence Keen have answered queries about South
ampton, as Dr Derek Keene has with Winchester. Grahame Soffe has kindly communicated several of his discoveries to me. Dr Alex Rumble under\-
took editiorial work on the text and end-matter, and saved me from many errors; I am also grateful for use of his un
published thesis, and also for the use of the unpublished work of Mr J.E.B. Gover and Dr P.H. Hase. I am particularly grateful to the staff of the Public Record Office for allowing access to the manu\-
script, and to Dr Daphne Gifford for checking up some further points. Finally, none of the above are responsible for any errors or omissions in the work'.}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par \tab John Morris, the originator and first editor of the series had died in 1977 and the subsequent volumes in the series were brought out under the supervision 
of John McN Dodgson and Alison Hawkins. A note at the end of the Introduction says: 'At the time of Dr Morris's death in June 1977, he had completed volumes 2 [Sussex], 3 [Surrey], 11 [Middlesex], 12 [Hertfordshire], 19 [Huntingdonshire], 23 [Warwickshire
]
, 24 [Staffordshire]. He had more or less finished the preparation of volumes 13 [Buckinghamshire], 14 [Oxfordshire], 20 [Bedfordshire], 28 [Nottinghamshire]. These and subsequent volumes in the series were brought out under the supervision of John Dodgso
n and Alison Hawkins, who have endeavoured to follow, as far as possible, the editorial principles established by John Morris'. The preparation of the volume was greatly assisted by a generous grant from the Leverhulme Trust Fund.
\par 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 The present edition is pa
rt of a project to convert the annotation of the Phillimore printed volumes to electronic form and to revise them. The present small-scale revision is essentially an interim edition until time is available for a full-scale re-edition. For the present purp
ose only a limited number of changes have been made to the printed notes:
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid8615858 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri-29\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8647\faauto\ls1\rin-29\lin720\itap0\pararsid8615858 \cbpat8 {
\cf1\insrsid8615858 The translation of some terms has been brought into line with those of the series as a whole.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid8615858 \cbpat8 {
\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 The bibliographical and other conventions have been changed to align them with the other counties that have been revised for the current project.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri6\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8460\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin6\lin720\itap0\pararsid8615858 
\cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Certain changes have been necessary in the conversion of the notes to a searchable electronic version, such as to the lead words for the notes, to cross-references and to punctuation. 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid8615858 \cbpat8 {
\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 The form of the hundred names has been standardized so as to distinguish between those units that are named from places still extant and those that are not.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}A number of the forms of personal names have been changed as part of a}{\cf1\insrsid8615858 n ongoing}{
\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535  process to bring more consistency to the entire name stock of Domesday Book.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid8615858 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid8615858 \cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid8615858 
 Some of the people have been further identified. When the identification comes from the person's occurrence in other documents or in other Domesday counties, this is shown in the translation be
tween asterisks within square brackets. Where there is no documentary evidence for the identity of an individual, but it seems likely that a number of persons with the same first name are one and the same, this has been indicated in the translation by put
t
ing the name of one of the estates held by that person between < >. In this county the notes to justify both these forms of identification have largely been written by John Palmer and these have been attributed to him as (JP) put at the end of his paragra
ph. }{\insrsid8615858 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri6\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8460\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin6\lin720\itap0\pararsid8615858 
\cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Obvious typographical errors }{\cf1\insrsid8615858 in the Phillimore printed notes }{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 have been corrected.}{\cf1\insrsid8615858 
\par }\pard \ql \li360\ri6\nowidctlpar\tx284\tx8460\tx8640\faauto\rin6\lin360\itap0\pararsid8615858 \cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par All the notes in the Phillimore printed edition are attributed here to Julian Munby (JM), although he, like the other editors, incorporated in his editi}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid11551423 on a body of st
andard notes, mostly written by John Morris, but also by other editors in the series. John Dodgson also supplied some notes on philological m}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
atters. Where the present editors have found it necessary to insert material within J}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid11551423 M's notes, such as the translation of Latin quotations, this is enclosed in square b}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 rackets. 
}{\insrsid8615858 Notes that are unsigned are by the present editors.}{\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8615858 \cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par }{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 Frank Thorn
\par Caroline Thorn
\par November 2006
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8615858 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid8615858 June 2007}{\insrsid8615858\charrsid3240535 
\par 
\par }}