{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 \sautoupd \styrsid3022880 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx360\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid1467951 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \sautoupd \styrsid10761145 Plain Text;}{\*\ts17\tsrowd\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \sbasedon11 \snext17 \styrsid12597458 Table Grid;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1794568576\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid67698691\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698693
\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880
\jclisttab\tx2880\lin2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698691\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600\lin3600 }{\listlevel
\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698693\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320\lin4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040\lin5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698691\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760\lin5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid67698693\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480\lin6480 }{\listname ;}\listid1598632094}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1598632094\listoverridecount9{\lfolevel}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}
{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat
\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}\ls1}}{\*\pgptbl {\pgp\ipgp0\itap0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid872162\rsid1397489\rsid1408468\rsid1467951\rsid2238966\rsid2785210\rsid3022880\rsid3166846\rsid4199044\rsid4787573\rsid4995737
\rsid5663645\rsid6688004\rsid6816974\rsid6837646\rsid6909460\rsid7106245\rsid8283657\rsid8868318\rsid9575802\rsid9915278\rsid10249717\rsid10577221\rsid10761145\rsid10945593\rsid11164424\rsid11366102\rsid11956016\rsid12072995\rsid12544952\rsid12597458
\rsid12652855\rsid12738150\rsid12870409\rsid12985516\rsid13185398\rsid13764953\rsid13768609\rsid13776222\rsid13793671\rsid14175461\rsid14943695\rsid14964512\rsid15010282\rsid15492802\rsid15806094\rsid15994128}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info
{\title NORTHAMPTONSHIRE}{\author John Palmer}{\operator John Palmer}{\creatim\yr2007\mo7\dy9\hr9\min36}{\revtim\yr2007\mo7\dy15\hr22\min9}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages13}{\nofwords5107}{\nofchars29116}{\*\company  University of Hull}{\nofcharsws34155}
{\vern16389}}\paperw11909\paperh16834 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow2\dgvshow2
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\viewnobound1\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15994128 
\fet0\sectd \psz9\linex0\headery706\footery706\colsx708\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid13764953\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12597458 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\fs28\insrsid12597458 NORTHAMPTONSHIRE
\par }\pard \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx720\tx8647\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15492802 \cbpat8 {\cf2\insrsid15492802 (version 1a)
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12597458 {\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\b\insrsid12597458 INTRODUCTION
\par 
\par HISTORY
\par }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 
Until the tenth century, the land that became Northamptonshire was an undifferentiated part of Mercia. The Tribal Hidage, which gives the assessment in hides of various tribes subject to the Mercian kings, may preserve the names of some tribes that occupi
ed this and neighbouring areas under the names of the }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 North Gyrwa}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468  and the }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 South Gyrwa}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 
 (600 hides each), a fenland people living north of the River Nene, the }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 Widerigga}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468  (600 hides) who were perhaps connected with Wittering and Werrington, and the }{
\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 Herefinna}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468  (1
200 hides) who extended from the future Huntingdonshire into the south-east of what became Northamptonshire. The Danes settled much of the area in the late ninth century and by partitioning Mercia established a distinctive entity under Danish rule. It is 
not certain that the boundary between English and Danish Mercia was Watling Street. 
\par \tab The Danes were pacified or expelled early in the tenth century by Aethelflaed of Mercia, sister of Edward the Elder King of Wessex, and by Edward himself. In 918 'the army
 which belonged to Northampton as far north as the Welland' submitted to King Edward and in 918 he took Stamford; see the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle under those years.. The proto-Northamptonshire appears to have originated as an area cleared of a single Danish
 
army, that based on Northampton. The shire itself, as a judicial, fiscal and administrative entity may not have been formally organized around the town until early in the eleventh century (it is first mentioned in 1011) and it is likely that the County Hi
d
age records the earliest organization of the county; in that document it is allotted 3200 hides, which suggests a shire containing 32 hundreds. These included two north of the River Welland (the double hundred of Witchley) and a number south-west of Watli
ng Street which may have been added at an unknown date 'to make up the shire'. On all this, see Hart, }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 Hidation of Northamptonshire}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 , pp. 12-14; Finberg, }{
\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 Gloucestershire Studies}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 , pp. 17-45; }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 Place-Names of Northamptonshire}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 , pp. xviii-xix; Hall, 'Introduction', }{
\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 Northamptonshire and Rutland Domesday}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid1408468 , pp. 6-7.
\par }{\insrsid12597458 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid12597458 HIDATION
\par }{\insrsid12597458 A notable feature of the Domesday Survey for Northamptonshire is the small number of hides in the Domesday shire compared with earlier surveys and the relation of hides to ploughlands and ploughl
ands to ploughs. The hide is both a term of areal measurement and a term of tax assessment. In some counties, the two are identical, but in }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
Northamptonshire the tax liability of a hide was considerably reduced. The County Hidage (perhaps representing the situation in the early eleventh century) allots 3200 hides to Northamptonshire; the Northamptonshire Geld Roll (}{
\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 c}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 . 1070) implies the existence of}{\insrsid12597458  3200, but accounts for 2663 \'bd hides, although at the time of Domesday the shire contained 1244 hides and, in th
e Pipe Roll of 1130, it had 1192}{\super\insrsid12597458  }{\insrsid12597458 \'be
 hides. The assessment of Cambridgeshire was similarly reduced. This successive reduction in hidage implies that many lands held by the king were not only not taxed, but not even hidated; it also implies a reduced assessme
nt of the county as a whole, probably as a result of the devastation of he county by earl Morcar's army in 1065, as recorded in the }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid12985516 Anglo-Saxon Chronicle}{\insrsid12597458 . The }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid12985516 
Northamptonshire Geld Roll}{\insrsid12597458  records 900 hides, about a third of the county, as waste. Between 1066
 and 1086 most estates show an increase in values, but these are especially sharp in the areas through which Morcar and his supporters may be presumed to have passed on their way to Northampton. Even in 1086, however, the county contained much waste, some
 with a nominal value. This reduction in assessment was unequal and progressive: in the }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 Northamptonshire Geld Roll}{\insrsid12597458 
, while in the south and east of the county 15 hundreds returned 100 hides each, in the centre and north, two hundreds had been cut to 90 hides, and six to 80. In the north and east, reductions were greater: a double hundred was cut to 108 \'bd
 hides, four hundreds to 62 hides, one to 60 }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 hides, one to 47 hides and one to 40 hides. In Domesday however, each of the hundreds has been evenly reduced to about 40 hides apiece. See Hart, }{
\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 Hidation of Northamptonshire}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 , and SUS \{Appendix\}.
\par \tab Hides are fewer than ploughlands in the county, in some areas on a clear ratio of 2:5.}{\insrsid12597458  The plough\-lands themselves show traces of a decimal or a duodecimal system of assess
ment, depending on whether they belonged to the 'English' or the 'Danish' areas of the county. The ploughlands might represent an earlier assessment of the county prior to the reduced hidation and may have been retained in the text of Domesday because obl
igations other than tax (such as roads, bridges, fortification) were based on them; on this, see Round in }{\i\insrsid12597458 VCH Northamptonshire}{\insrsid12597458 , i. p. 265; Baring, \lquote Pre-Domesday Hidation of Northamptonshire\rquote ; Baring, 
\lquote Hidation of Northamptonshire\rquote ; Hart, }{\i\insrsid12597458 Hidation of Northamptonshire}{\insrsid12597458 .
\par \tab }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
Land in Northamptonshire was predominately measured in hides and virgates, thus contrasting with the adjacent counties of Lincolnshire and Leicestershire where the 'Danish' carucate and bovate was the norm. Carucates are found sporadically in D
omesday Northamptonshire, and bovates are mixed with hides and virgates mainly in}{\insrsid12597458 
 the north and east of the county. A feature of Northamptonshire measurements is the number of small divisions of the hide, such as the third part of half a hide, and (at 56,5) 3 parts of 2 parts of 1 hide.
\par }{\b\insrsid12597458 
\par 
\par 
\par THE COUNTY BOUNDARY
\par }{\insrsid12597458 The major difference between the 1086 county and the later one was the inclusion of th}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 e southern third of what became Rutland, that is, Witchley Wapentake, in}{\insrsid12597458 
 Northamptonshire. The remaining two Rutland wapentakes, Alstoe Wapentake and Martinsley Wapentake, had a quasi-independent existence in 1086 as }{\i\insrsid12597458 Roteland}{\insrsid12597458 
, attached to Nottinghamshire 'for the collection of the king's tax'. }{\i\insrsid12597458 Roteland}{\insrsid12597458  is given a separate section for its landholders on the Nottinghamsh
ire landholders page (folio 280d) and a separate schedule at the end of Nottinghamshire (folios 293c-294a). 
\par \tab With the exception of the uncertainly identified Hardwick (an outlier of the Lincolnshire estate of Skillington: }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid11366102 LIN CK10}{\insrsid12597458 ), all places in Witchley
 Wapentake were in Northamptonshire in 1086. Moreover, the entries for that wapentake do }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
not form any separate schedule, but are scattered throughout the Northamptonshire text like those of any other hundred or wapentake. The estates there are predominantl
y hidated, but bovates and carucates are also found, as well as a mixture of both systems as in the rest of Northamptonshire. Nonetheless, Witchley Wapentake is the only part of England north of the River Welland to be assessed in hides and virgates. Earl
ier, the hundreds of East Witchley and West Witchley}{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282  }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
are found as part of the county in the Northamptonshire Geld Roll, but, by the time of the twelfth-century Northamptonshire Survey, Witchley Wapentake was not included in Northamptonshire The marginal }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 Rotel' }{
\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 entered in the manuscript against some entries in Witchley Wapentake is in a late thirteenth-century hand, by which time the modern Rutland had been formed.}{\b\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
\par }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 \tab The 1086 county also differed in a number of minor ways from the l}{\insrsid12597458 ater shire. Most of the chan
ges (which are set out below) date from the nineteenth century. Until then Northamptonshire along its south-eastern boundary was much interlaced with }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid11366102 Huntingdonshire}{\insrsid12597458 
 and Bedfordshire, with some villages divided by the county boundary, and some parts of Nor
thamptonshire being entirely detached. The 1086 bounds are complicated by the fact that some lords, the Bishop of Coutances, the Abbots of Ramsey and Peterborough and William Peverel, held adjacent ground on both sides of the boundary. Moreover, it is not
 always possible from the Domesday evidence alone to determine if a piece of land was an outlying part of Northamptonshire i}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 n another county in 1086, or if it was then an integral part of the county but later isolated}{
\insrsid12597458  from it by an unrecorded boundary change. Domesday place-names are those of areas, often of a large number of hides, only a marginal portion of which could be in another county:
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par }\trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth5000\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1845\clshdrawnil \cellx3038\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1478\clshdrawnil \cellx5558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1677\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 PLACE}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 1086}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }{
\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 LATER}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {
\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth5000\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1845\clshdrawnil \cellx3038\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1478\clshdrawnil \cellx5558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1677\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Northamptonshire/ Bedfordshire Border}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par FARNDISH (BDF 42,1. 43,1. NTH 35,1f.)
\par 
\par NEWTON BROMSWOLD (BDF. 3,9. NTH 4,20.)
\par 
\par PODINGTON (BDF 32,5. 34,1. NTH 35,1g.)
\par 
\par RUSHDEN (BDF 3,17. 22,2. NTH. 35,1b;1j)
\par 
\par STANWICK (BDF. 7,1}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 .}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460  NTH. 6,16)
\par 
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par Divided between counties
\par 
\par 
\par Divided between counties
\par 
\par 
\par Divided between counties
\par 
\par 
\par Divided between counties
\par 
\par 
\par Divided between counties}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par Northamptonshire portion to Bedfordshire in 1884
\par 
\par Bedfordshire portion to Northamptonshire early
\par 
\par Northamptonshire portion to Bedfordshire early
\par 
\par Bedfordshire portion to Northamptonshire early
\par 
\par Bedfordshire portion to Northamptonshire early
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \trowd \irow1\irowband1
\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth5000\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1845\clshdrawnil \cellx3038\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1478\clshdrawnil \cellx5558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1677\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Northamptonshire/ Huntingdonshire Border}{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458 \'86}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 CATWORTH (HUN}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460  13,4. 19,12;32. 29,3. D17. }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 NTH 6a,26}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 )
\par 
\par ELTON (HUN 6,13. NTH 6,9. 9,3)
\par 
\par 
\par HARGRAV}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 E (HUN 3,1. 19,13-14. NTH 35,15}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 )
\par 
\par LUDDINGTON-IN-}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 THE-BROOK (HUN 19,19. NTH 6a,16}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 )
\par 
\par L}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 UTTON (HUN 6,14. NTH 6a,11. 9,2}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 )
\par 
\par STIBBINGTON (and WA}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 NSFORD) (HUN 7,7. 9,4. NTH 59,1}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 )
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par THURNING (HUN 5,}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 2. 19,18. NTH 6,10b)
\par 
\par WIN}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 WICK (}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid1397489 HUN 19,16-17}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 . NTH 6a,17. 55,4}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 )
\par }{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par Divided between counties
\par 
\par 
\par Divided between counties
\par 
\par 
\par Divided between counties
\par 
\par 
\par Divided between counties
\par 
\par 
\par Divided between counties
\par 
\par 
\par Divided between counties
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Divided between counties
\par 
\par 
\par Divided between counties
\par 
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par Northamptonshire portion to Huntingdonshire }{\i\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 c}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 . 1890
\par 
\par Northamptonshire portion to Huntingdonshire by 1851 
\par 
\par Huntingdonshire portion to Northamptonshire early
\par 
\par Huntingdonshire portion to Northamptonshire in 1895
\par 
\par Huntingdonshire portion to Northamptonshire in 1895
\par 
\par Stibbington }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid1397489 is now confined to}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460  Huntingdonshire and Wansfo}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 rd to Northamptonshire. }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid1397489 Probably no boundary change; s
}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 ee 59,1 Stibbington note
\par 
\par Huntingdonshire portion to Northamptonshire in 1895
\par 
\par Northamptonshire portion to Huntingdonshire in 1895
\par 
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \trowd \irow2\irowband2
\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth5000\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1845\clshdrawnil \cellx3038\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1478\clshdrawnil \cellx5558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1677\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Northamptonshire/ Leicestershire Border}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par LITTLE BOWDEN (NTH 18,19)
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par To Leicestershire in 1889}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {
\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \trowd \irow3\irowband3\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth5000\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1845\clshdrawnil \cellx3038\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1478\clshdrawnil \cellx5558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1677\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Northamptonshire/ Oxfordshire Border}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par GRIMSBURY (NTH 48,11)
\par 
\par MOLLINGTON (NTH 35,26. OXF 17,7. WAR}{\fs20\insrsid12597458  }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 37,9.)
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par Apparently divided between three counties in 1086}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid1397489 , but the Northamptonshire portion may have been misallocated; see 35,26 Mollington note}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par To Oxfordshire in 1894
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid1397489 If a portion lay in Northamptonshire, it was}{\fs20\insrsid12597458  }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 transferred to Oxfordshire or Warwickshire early; see 35,26 Mollington note}{\fs20\insrsid12597458  

\par  }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\trowd \irow4\irowband4\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth5000\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1845\clshdrawnil \cellx3038\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1478\clshdrawnil \cellx5558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1677\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Northamptonshire/ }{\b\i\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Roteland}{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460  Border}{
\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 BARROWDEN (NTH 1,2. 26,3)
\par 
\par BELMESTHORPE (NTH 56,1) 
\par 
\par BISBROOKE (NTH 1,2e. 56,25)
\par 
\par CALDECOTT (NTH 5,2)
\par 
\par CASTERTON (NTH 1,4. 58,1)
\par 
\par EMPINGHAM (NTH 35,9. 46,4-5)
\par 
\par ESSENDINE (NTH 5,3)
\par 
\par GLASTON (NTH 1,2e. 56,36)
\par 
\par HARDWICK? (}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid5663645 LIN}{\fs20\insrsid12597458  }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid5663645 CK10}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 )
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 HORN (NTH 3,1. 56,27)
\par 
\par KETTON (NTH 1,1)
\par 
\par NORTH LUFFENHAM (NTH 1,3. 56,36)
\par 
\par SOUTH LUFFENHAM (NTH 1,2f)
\par 
\par LYDDINGTON (NTH 5,2)
\par 
\par MORCOTT (NTH 1,2d)
\par 
\par "PORTLAND" (NTH 1,5)
\par 
\par RYHALL (NTH 56,1)
\par 
\par 'SCULTHORP' (NTH 1,3)
\par 
\par SEATON (NTH 1,2b. 26,3. 56,36)
\par 
\par 'SNELSTON' (NTH 5,2)
\par 
\par STOKE DRY (NTH 5,2. 6,10c)
\par 
\par THORPE-BY-WATER (NTH 1,2c. 56,36)
\par 
\par TICKENCOTE (NTH 56,26)
\par 
\par TINWELL (NTH 6,13)
\par 
\par TIXOVER (NTH 1,1)
\par 
\par TOLETHORPE (NTH 36,1)
\par 
\par }{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par Outlier of }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 the Lincolnshire estates of }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Lavington and 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 Skillington }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 , county not}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 stated, assumed to be the}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 place in Northamptonshire 
\par in 1086
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par 
\par In Northamptonshire
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century
\par 
\par To Rutland by early 13th century}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {
\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \trowd \irow5\irowband5\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth5000\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1845\clshdrawnil \cellx3038\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1478\clshdrawnil \cellx5558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1677\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Northamptonshire/ Warwickshire Border}{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458 \'87}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par MOLLINGTON (NTH 35,26. OXF 17,7. WAR}{\fs20\insrsid12597458  37,9)}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 STONETON (NTH 27,1)
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par Apparently divided between three counties in 1086}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 , }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid5663645 but the Northamptonshire portion may have been misallocated; see 35,26 Mollington note}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 In Northamptonshire
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid5663645 If a portion lay in Northamptonshire, it was}{\fs20\insrsid12597458  }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 transferred to Oxfordshire or Warwickshire early; see 35,26 Mollington note}{
\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid11164424 . The Warwickshire portion transferred to Oxfordshire in 1896}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 .}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par 
\par To Warwickshire in 1895}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\trowd \irow6\irowband6\lastrow \ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth5000\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1845\clshdrawnil \cellx3038\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1478\clshdrawnil \cellx5558\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1677\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12597458 {
\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 The dates of boundary changes are derived from Youngs, }{\i\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Local Administrative Units}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 , i. and ii. }{
\i\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 passim}{\i\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\insrsid12597458 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx720\tx8647\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12597458 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12597458\charrsid3166846 \'86 }{\insrsid12597458 
The continuing expansion of Peterborough south of the R
iver Nene has intruded on parts of the Huntingdonshire parishes of Fletton (1889 and 1894), Woodston (1889 and 1894); Old Fletton (1894), Stanground (1905), Alwalton (1956), Chesterton (1956) and Orton Longueville (1956).
\par \tab In Parliamentary Papers SPR. MIC.
 E.291, Accounts and Papers (3) 1825 vol. 21 entitled 'Insulated Parcels of Land', nine portions of the parish of Thrapston (Northamptonshire) are listed as lying in Huntingdonshire . No doubt some of these parcels were adjacent and formed the six Northam
ptonshire 'fields' found within Huntingdonshire on early Ordnance Survey maps (e.g., one-inch sheet 53 of 1835).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12597458 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 \'87 }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid2238966  It is possible that Sawbridge (10,3)}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 , }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid5663645 
lying within the bounds of Warwickshire,  was an outlier of Northamptonshire in 1086, although there is no later record of its being in Northamptonshire. The estate was probably misallocated to Northamptonshire; see 10,3 Sawbridge note.}{
\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid2238966 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid12597458 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid12597458 HUNDREDS
\par }{\insrsid12597458 The forms of the names of some hundreds have been changed for this partial re-editing of the Phillimore print
ed edition of Northamptonshire. Those hundred names that are in single inverted commas are derived from places that have subsequently disappeared:
\par 
\par }\trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx4153\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Phillimore printed edition}{
\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 This edition}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12597458 \trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx4153\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Alboldstow
\par Alwardsley
\par Cleyley
\par Collingtree
\par Corby
\par Foxley
\par "Geritone"
\par Gravesend
\par Guilsborough
\par Hamfordshoe
\par Higham Ferrers
\par Huxloe
\par Mawsley
\par Navisford
\par Navisland
\par Nobottle
\par Orlingbury
\par Polebrook
\par Rothwell
\par Spelhoe
\par Stoke
\par Stotfold
\par Sutton
\par Towcester
\par Upton
\par Warden
\par Willybrook
\par Witchley
\par Wymersley
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 'Alboldstow'
\par 'Alwardsley'
\par Cleyley
\par Collingtree
\par Corby
\par Foxley
\par Gretton (alternative name for Corby Hundred)
\par 'Gravesend'
\par Guilsborough
\par 'Hamfordshoe'
\par Higham
\par 'Huxloe'
\par Mawsley
\par Navisford
\par 'Navisland'
\par Nobottle
\par Orlingbury
\par Polebrook
\par Rothwell
\par 'Spelhoe'
\par Stoke
\par 'Stotfold'
\par Sutton
\par Towcester
\par Upton
\par Warden
\par Willybrook
\par Witchley
\par Wymersley
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12597458 \trowd \irow1\irowband1\lastrow 
\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx4153\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12597458 {\cf1\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\insrsid12597458 The names of 29 hundreds occur in the text of Northamptonshire. One of them, Gretton Hundred,}{\i\insrsid12597458  }{\insrsid12597458 is}{\i\insrsid12597458  }{\insrsid12597458 
probably an alternative name for Corby Hundred (1,32 Gretton note). The remaining 28 are evidenced in more or less detail: hundred heads 
are sporadic in the text, Higham Hundred being entered only once as a rubrication, although the Domesday hundred probably contained 16 places. Apart from scribal lack of care, other reasons are that hundred heads are rarely entered for outlying parts of a
 manor, nor at the beginning of chapters, nor, it seems,when the place named the hundred.
\par \tab The relation of the Domesday hundreds to those given in the }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 Northamptonshire Geld Roll}{\insrsid12597458 , the }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 Northamptonshire Survey}{\insrsid12597458 , the }{
\i\insrsid12597458 Nomina Villarum }{\insrsid12597458 of 1316 (}{\i\insrsid12597458 Feudal Aids}{\insrsid12597458 , iv. pp. 19-30) is set out below. }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid14943695 
The names from the Geld Roll, from Domesday and from the Northamptonshire Survey }{\insrsid12597458 are given in their modern form.
\par 
\par }\trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448\clshdrawnil \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2087\clshdrawnil \cellx4427\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2233\clshdrawnil \cellx6660\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2088\clshdrawnil \cellx8748\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {
\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 Northamptonshire Geld Roll}{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460  (}{\b\i\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 c}{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 . 1070)}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\cell }{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Domesday (1086)}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6688004 Northamptonshire }{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6688004 
\par }{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6688004 Survey}{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460  (12th century)}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }{\b\i\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Nomina Villarum}{
\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460  }{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid14943695 (1316)}{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458   }{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12597458 \trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448\clshdrawnil \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2087\clshdrawnil \cellx4427\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2233\clshdrawnil \cellx6660\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2088\clshdrawnil \cellx8748\row }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 'Alboldstow'}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 'Alwardsley'
\par Cleyley
\par ------------}{\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 Corby
\par Foxley
\par 'Gravesend'
\par Guilsborough 
\par 'Hamfordshoe'
\par Higham
\par 'Huxloe'
\par Mawsley
\par Navisford
\par 'Navisland'
\par 
\par Nobottle Grove
\par Orlingbury
\par Polebrook
\par Rothwell
\par 'Spelhoe'
\par Stoke
\par 'Stotfold'
\par Sutton
\par Towcester
\par Upton
\par Warden
\par Willybrook
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid872162 West Witchley
\par 
\par East Witchley}{\fs20\insrsid12597458  }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par Wymersley
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 'Alboldstow'}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 'Alwardsley'
\par Cleyley
\par Collingtree
\par Corby (or Gretton)
\par Foxley
\par 'Gravesend'
\par Guilsborough
\par 'Hamfordshoe'
\par Higham
\par 'Huxloe'
\par Mawsley
\par Navisford
\par 'Navisland'
\par 
\par Nobottle
\par Orlingbury
\par Polebrook
\par Rothwell
\par 'Spelhoe'
\par Stoke
\par 'Stotfold'
\par Sutton
\par Towcester
\par Upton
\par Warden
\par Willybrook
\par Witchley
\par 
\par Wymersley
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 'Alboldstow'}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 'Alwardsley'
\par Cleyley
\par [part of Wymersley]
\par Corby
\par Norton
\par 'Gravesend' Fawsley
\par Guilsborough
\par 'Hamfordshoe'
\par Higham
\par 'Huxloe'
\par Mawsley
\par Navisford
\par 'South Navisland'
\par 'North Navisland'
\par Nobottle Grove
\par Orlingbury
\par Polebrook
\par Rothwell
\par 'Spelhoe'
\par Stoke
\par 'Stotfold'
\par Sutton
\par Towcester
\par -------------
\par Warden
\par Willybrook
\par [In Rutland]
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 [In Rutland]
\par Wymersley
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 [part of Sutton]}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid872162 [part of Fawsley}{\fs20\insrsid12597458 ]}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par Cleyley
\par [part of Wymersley]}{\fs20\insrsid12597458  }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par Corby
\par Norton
\par Fawsley
\par Guilsborough
\par 'Hamfordshoe'
\par Higham
\par 'Huxloe'
\par [part of Orlingbury
\par Navisford
\par [part of 'Huxloe']
\par [part of 'Huxloe']
\par Nobottle Grove
\par Orlingbury
\par Polebrook
\par Rothwell
\par 'Spelhoe'
\par [part of Corby]
\par [part of Rothwell]
\par Sutton
\par Towcester
\par Nassaburgh
\par Warden
\par Willybrook
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid872162 'Wrangditch' }{\fs20\insrsid12597458 [i}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid872162 n Rutland]
\par 'East' [in Rutland]}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 
\par Wymersley
\par }{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid6909460 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12597458 \trowd \irow1\irowband1\lastrow 
\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trftsWidthB3\trftsWidthA3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2448\clshdrawnil \cellx2340\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2087\clshdrawnil \cellx4427\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2233\clshdrawnil \cellx6660\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth2088\clshdrawnil \cellx8748\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12597458 {\cf1\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\insrsid12597458 \tab }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
The Northamptonshire Geld Roll states that some hundreds are double ('Navisland' and Upton) and some are 'hundreds and a half' (Guilsborough, Higham, Nobottle, Wymersley). West Witchley and East W
itchley are, in effect, a double hundred. Domesday sometimes calls Guilsborough and Wymersley 'a hundred and a half. \tab 
Amalgamations in the centuries following the compilation of Domesday removed 'Alboldstow', 'Alwardsley', Mawsley, 'Navisland', Stoke and '
Stotfold'. Collingtree Hundred occurs only in Domesday, containing about six places, and was soon amalgamated with Wymersley Hundred where it was probably included in the Northamptonshire Geld Roll. Although a hundred is named after Foxley in Domesday, th
e village itself was in Towcester Hundred in 1086, possibly a recent transfer.
\par \tab 'Alwardsley' Hundred occurs in the Northamptonshire Geld Roll, in Domesday and in the Northamptonshire Survey . In this last, it appears to have formed a}{\insrsid12597458  much larger area to the
 north of the correspondingly reduced 'Gravesend' Hundred, Staverton Badby and Dodford being on its southern edge. In the }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 Northamptonshire Geld Roll}{\insrsid12597458 
, the hundred of 'Alwardsley' was similarly larger than the 1086 one, which seems to have contained only Barby and Kilsby, since the other places that are included in the hundred }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid14175461 earlier and later}{\insrsid12597458 
 are either beneath a 'Gravesend' hundred head in the text of Domesday, or among places in'Gravesend' Hundred.
\par \tab Two of the Domesday hundreds were later divided: in the }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 Northamptonshire Survey}{\insrsid12597458  }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid14175461 (Round, pp. 388-89),}{\insrsid12597458 
 'South Navisland' included Finedon, Irthlingborough, Addington and Woodford, the other places that in 1086 were in 'Navisland' Hundred being in 'North Navisland' in the }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 Northamptonshire Survey}{\insrsid12597458  }{
\insrsid12597458\charrsid14175461 (Round, p. 389).}{\insrsid12597458  Witchley }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
Wapentake, later in Rutland, became divided into two hundreds, 'East' Hundred and 'Wrangditch' Hundred, probably reflecting the division found in the Northamptonshire Geld Roll into East Witchley and West Witchley. 'East' Hundred contained Ketton, 
Tinwell, Empingham and places to the east; 'Wrangditch' Hundred consisted of Luffenham, Tixover and places west. There is no evidence in the arrangement of Witchley places in the text of Domesday that it was regarded as falling into two halves in 1086.  

\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx360\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12597458 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 \tab 
Apart from these major differences between the Domesday and the earlier and later hundreds, there were a number of variations in the boundaries of the 1}{\insrsid12597458 
086 hundreds. Some villages were split between hundreds: Boughton was both in Rothwell Hundred and in Co
rby Hundred, and Easton-on-the-Hill in both Upton Hundred and Willybrook Hundred. Evenley was both in 'Alboldstow' Hundred and Sutton Hundred, with another part of the village an outlier of Towcester Hundred. Hardwick was both in 'Hamfordshoe' Hundred and
 Orlingbury Hundred, Steane was in both Sutton Hundred and 'Alboldstow' Hundred, and Warmington was probably in both Polebrook Hundred and Willybrook Hundred.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12597458 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12597458 \tab 
Detached parts of hundreds were unusual in 1086, but Evenley and Silverstone were certainly separ
ated from Towcester Hundred and Foxley Hundred respectively, and it is probable that Hinton-in-the-Hedges and Kingsthorpe (with the dependent Moulton and Weston) were detachments of Towcester Hundred and Mawsley Hundred respectively.
\par \tab Hundred heads in the text or the order of entries suggest that some }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
places were in different hundreds in 1086 from those where they later lay: thus Cleyley Hundred seems to have contained Grafton Regis, placed by the Northamptonshire Sur}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 vey}{\insrsid12597458 
 in Towcester Hundred; Denford was in }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid12072995 Higham Hund}{\insrsid12597458 
red, but later in 'Huxloe' Hundred. 'Huxloe' Hundred contained Benefield; Mawsley Hundred probably had Holcot. Part of Wellingborough was probably in 'Navisland' Hundred, and part of Spratton was in Nobottle Hundred. Orlingbury Hundred containe
d part of Burton Latimer; Stoke Doyle and Thurning were in Polebrook Hundred (later in Navisford Hundred) and Kelmarsh and Pipewell were in Rothwell Hundred. Kelmarsh, included in the }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 Northamptonshire Survey}{
\insrsid12597458  in 'Stotfold' Hundred, was later amalgamated, like its hundred, with Rothwell Hundred.  
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid12597458 
\par THE DOMESDAY FORMAT
\par The Manuscript
\par }{\insrsid12597458 The manuscript is written on leaves, or folios, of parchment (sheepskin) measuring about 15 inches by 11 inches (38 centimetres by 28 centimetres), on both
 sides. On each side, or page, are two columns, making four to each folio. The folios were numbered in the seventeenth century, and the four columns of each are here lettered a, b, c, d. The manuscript emphasises words and usually distinguishes chapters a
nd }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 sections by the use of red ink. Underlining here generally indicates deletion.
\par \tab The Northamptonshire folios are less carefully compiled than those for some other counties. Chapters 15 and 16 in the Landholders' List are in reverse order in the text which
 also misnumbers chapter 23 (as 33) and 31-38 (as 30-37), thus giving two chapters numbered 30. A third chapter 30 is found after the misnumbered 33 and is really chapter 35. Chapter 6 is divided in the text between lands of Peterborough Abbey and lands o
f
 that church's men, but the second heading is not in the Landholders' List. The last two entries of chapter 19 appear at the foot of folio 224a,b, across both columns, and chapters 23 and 22 are found transposed on folio 224c, d. Moreover, chapter 24 is w
ritten at the foot of folio 224c thus breaking into chapter 23. On his reversal of the fiefs of Earl Hugh and Hugh of Grandmesnil in the text, see NTH 22 Hugh note.
\par \tab Marginal additions are found on folio 220b (Roade 2,9), folio 225a}{\insrsid12597458  (Titchmarsh 25,2) and fo
lio 229b (Hollowell 57,4); and cramped, possibly postscriptal, entries are found at the foot of folio 220b (chapter 3), folio 222c (West Haddon 12,4), folio 223c (Creaton 18,53) and folio 227c (Crick 47,2). The term wapentake is sometimes used for hundred
, and vice versa; Guilsborough is sometimes termed a hundred, sometimes a hundred and a half.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid12597458 Places entered in the wrong Domesday County
\par }{\insrsid12597458 A literal reading of the folios for Northamptonshire would suggest that 20 or so entries refer to places that were ou
tliers of the county within Oxfordshire, Staffordshire and Warwickshire in 1086. This is unlikely to be so. At one stage in the complex process that produced Domesday Book, material was probably grouped by fief and within it by county as in the }{
\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid6837646 Liber Exonioensis}{\insrsid12597458  (Exon). It would be easy for a county heading to be missing in such a schedule or for the main scribe of Great Domesday to miss one, especially if it }{
\insrsid12597458\charrsid9915278 was partly or wholly in the margin; he would thus have continued entering in one county places that
 belonged to another. The Northamptonshire examples probably involve eight fiefs (NTH 4. 10. 16. 19. 23. 35. 36. 46). In most cases, the lands concerned are entered at the end of the fief. In one case (16,1) there is a hundred heading ('In Cuttlestone Hun
dred') that manifestly relates the estate to a county other than Northamptonshire. }{\insrsid12597458 
In four cases the tenant concerned is not entered as a landholder in the folios of these other counties. Moreover, other parts of the vills are entered in their correct county:
\par 
\par }\trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth5000\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1667\clshdrawnil \cellx2734\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1667\clshdrawnil \cellx5576\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1667\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 In Oxfordshire}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 \cell }{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 In Staffordshire}{
\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 \cell }{\b\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 In Warwickshire}{\b\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 \trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth2\trwWidth5000\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1667\clshdrawnil \cellx2734\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1667\clshdrawnil \cellx5576
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1667\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl
\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\pararsid4995737\yts17 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 4,30 Finmere}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 4,31 Hethe
\par 4,32 Shelswell
\par 4,33 Glympton
\par 4,34 Wootton
\par 4,35 Worton
\par 4,36 Heyford
\par 23,16 Cottisford 
\par 23,17 Charlton-on-Otmoor
\par 23,18 Shipton-on-Cherwell
\par 23,19 Sibford Gower 
\par 35,26 Mollington\'87}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 \cell }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 16,1 Lapley}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 16,2 Marston
\par 36,3 West Bromwich}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 \cell }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 10,3 Sawbridge\'86}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 19,2 Berkeswell
\par 19,3 Over Whitacre
\par 36,4 Over
\par 46,7 Whichford}{\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
\trowd \irow1\irowband1\lastrow \ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth2\trwWidth5000\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1667\clshdrawnil \cellx2734\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1667\clshdrawnil \cellx5576\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth2\clwWidth1667\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx720\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12597458 {
\fs20\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
\par }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid9575802 \'86 }{\fs20\insrsid12597458  }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid9575802 Sawbridge lay close enough to the border to have been an outlier of the county in 1086; see 10,3 Sawbridge note.
\par \'87  It is possible that Mollington, which lay at the junction of Northamptonshire, Oxfordshire and Warwickshire and which was certainly divided between Oxfordshire and Warwickshire in 1086, also had a }{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid9915278 
portion in Northamptonshire, although its inclusion in Northamptonshire may be the result of a mis-division of material relating to the circuit; see 35,6 Mollington note.}{\fs20\insrsid12597458\charrsid9575802  
\par }{\highlight4\insrsid12597458 
\par }{\b\insrsid12597458 
\par 
\par RELATED OR 'SATELLITE' TEXTS
\par }{\insrsid12597458 Two documents, the }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 Northamptonshire Geld Roll}{\insrsid12597458  of }{\i\insrsid12597458 c}{\insrsid12597458 . 1070 and the twelfth-century }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 Northamptonshire Survey}
{\insrsid12597458 , while they are not Domesday 'satellites', are invaluable for its elucidation:
\par \tab }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 The Northamptonshire Geld Roll, probably dating from the early years of the Conqueror's reign and perhaps intended to explain the apparently low yield of tax from the county, survives in the twelfth-century }{
\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 Liber Niger }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 of Peterborough (London, Society of Antiquaries, 60, folios 52r-54v = folios xlvii}{\super\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 r}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282  - xlix}{
\super\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 v }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 of the medieval foliation). It was discussed by Round in }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 Feudal England}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 , pp. 147-56, and by him in }{
\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 VCH Northamptonshire}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 , i. pp. 257, 258-61; by Hart, }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 Hidation of Northamptonshire}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
, pp. 16-21; and transcribed, translated and discusssed in Robertson, }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 Anglo-Saxon Charters}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 ,  pp. 230-3}{\insrsid12597458 
7; 481-84. It lists hides held, hundred by hundred, but without place-names, though s}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 everal holdings can be identified by comparison with Domesday.
\par \tab The more detailed Northamptonshire Survey dates from the reign of Henry I, but the tenants' names were partially updated to the end of the reign of Henry II. It survives in 'The White Book', a
 register of Peterborough Abbey dating from the early part of the fourteenth century (B. L., Cotton Vespasian E. xxii, folios 94r-99v). It was discussed by Round in }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 Feudal England}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
, pp. 215-24, and in }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 VCH Northamptonshire}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 , i. pp. 357-364, and translated in 
full by him in the latter (pp. 365-389). Hundred by hundred it lists landowners and the hidage of their holdings, in such detail that most Domesday holdings can be found there, often in the hands of the sons of the 1086 holder. It is invaluable in making 
or supporting identifications. It should be noted that the term 'great virgate' r}{\insrsid12597458 epresents the Domesday virgate, a quarter of a hide, while 'small virgate' refers to a tenth of a hide.
\par }{\b\insrsid12597458 
\par 
\par 
\par EDITORIAL
\par Bibliographical
\par }{\insrsid12597458 The pioneer works on Domesday Northamptonshire are Bridges, }{\i\insrsid12597458 History of }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 Northamptonshire}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 , and Baker, }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
History of the County of Northampton}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 , but the masterly edition by Round in }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 VCH Northamptonshire}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
, i. pp. 257-356 (its translation based on that of Stuart Moore), coupled with a study of the Northamptonshire Survey (pp. 357-89; see also Round, }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 Feudal England}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 
, pp. 215-24), is the fundamental work, requiring only a few a}{\insrsid12597458 djustments to identifications. The }{\i\insrsid12597458 Place-Names of Northamptonshire}{\insrsid12597458 
, (1933) put the county's names on a sounder base, and the whole county was indexed and mapped in the }{\i\insrsid12597458 Domesday Gazetteer}{\insrsid12597458 . There is a useful bibliography in }{\i\insrsid12597458 Domesday Geography of Midland England}
{\insrsid12597458 , pp. 419-20.
\par }{\b\insrsid12597458 
\par 
\par The Identification of Places
\par }{\insrsid12597458 Hundred heads are entered only sporadically in the text and this causes difficulty in identifying places in a county where }{\i\insrsid12597458 Torp}{\insrsid12597458  can represent seven different places, }{\i\insrsid12597458 Stoche }{
\insrsid12597458 four and }{\i\insrsid12597458 Estone }{\insrsid12597458 three. Some of the spellings are odd: }{\i\insrsid12597458 Mermeston }{\insrsid12597458 for Armston, }{\i\insrsid12597458 Arniworde }{\insrsid12597458 and }{\i\insrsid12597458 
Narninworde }{\insrsid12597458 for Arthing\-worth, }{\i\insrsid12597458 Bellica }{\insrsid12597458 and }{\i\insrsid12597458 Belinge }{\insrsid12597458 for Billing, }{\i\insrsid12597458 Bracstone }{\insrsid12597458 for Draughton, and }{\i\insrsid12597458 
Dotone }{\insrsid12597458 for Clopton. Fortunately these deficiencies can in part be made good by near-contemporary documents: the earlier }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 Northamptonshire Geld Roll}{\insrsid12597458  and the later }{
\insrsid12597458\charrsid10249717 Northamptonshire Survey}{\insrsid12597458 ; see \{Introduction: Related or 'Satellite' Texts\}. 
\par \tab The descent of manors and the evolution of the forms of the Domesday place-names are largely outside the scope of this edition, but enough evidence is given in the notes below to identify }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid7106245 
places with the same name or with difficult names}{\insrsid12597458  where there might otherwise be doubt. Northamptonshire contains many places }{\insrsid12597458\charrsid7106245 with}{\insrsid12597458 
 the same basic name, now distinguished by East and West, St Mary and St Peter. Only Little Weldon (23,1) is so distinguished in the text, the separate existence of other adjacent villages such as Gre
at and Little Billing being only evidenced later. No attempt is made to distinguish such places in the text but the notes discuss some of the later evidence. The only places with distinguishing names that are included in the text (for example, East Haddon
 and West Haddon) are those that are in different areas of the county. The text sometimes uses }{\i\insrsid12597458 alius }{\insrsid12597458 o}{\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 r }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 alter }{
\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 to distinguish holdings, as at Addington (4,22), Harrowden (4,6) and Heyford (18,8), where separate villages are later found. But 'another' Courtee
nhall is also listed, where there is no later evidence for two villages, and the evidence of other counties, for example, Seaborough in Somerset (3,1) and Thistleton in Rutland (LIN 27,48-49), suggests that these terms refer often to different holdings in
 a single place rather than to different places; see Thorn, 'Manorial Affixes'.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\insrsid12597458\charrsid15010282 S}{\b\insrsid12597458 tate of Revision
\par }{\insrsid12597458 The Phillimore edition of Northamptonshire was published in 1979. The translation was drafted by Margaret Jones, Philip Morgan and Judith Plaister, the maps 
were the work of Jim Hardy and Frank Thorn and the volume was edited by Frank and Caroline Thorn. The editors were very grateful to Mr J.D. Foy for reading the typescript and proofs and to Mr P.L. King, Chief Archivist of Northamptonshire, for help with t
he county boundary.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx720\tx8460\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12597458 \cbpat8 {\insrsid12597458 \tab 
John Morris, the originator and first editor of the series had died in 1977 and the subsequent volumes in the series were brought out under the supervision of John McN. Dodgson and Alison Hawkins. A note at the end of the Introduction s
aid; 'At the time of Dr Morris's death in June 1977, he had completed volumes 2 [Sussex], 3 [Surrey], 11 [Middlesex], 12 [Hertfordshire], 19 [Huntingdonshire], 23 [Warwickshire], 24 [Staffordshire]. He had more or less finished the preparation of volumes 
1
3 [Buckinghamshire], 14 [Oxfordshire], 20 [Bedfordshire], 28 [Nottinghamshire]. These and subsequent volumes in the series were brought out under the supervision of John Dodgson and Alison Hawkins, who have endeavoured to follow, as far as possible, the e
ditorial principles established by John Morris'. The preparation of the volume was greatly assisted by a generous grant from the Leverhulme Trust Fund.
\par 
\par When it appeared, the Northamptonshire volume had more than the minimal annotation which characteriz
ed earlier volumes in the series and which reflected John Morris' policy. Nonetheless, it would benefit from a full revision because of its editors' further twenty-eight years of study, especially on the manuscript and the writing and correction of this c
o
unty, and because of the appearance of a number of important books and articles. The editors intend to undertake such a revision in due course. The present edition is part of a project to convert the annotation of the Phillimore printed volumes to electro
nic form and to revise them. For this purpose only a limited number of changes have been made to the printed notes:
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid12597458 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri-29\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8647\faauto\ls1\rin-29\lin720\itap0\pararsid12597458 \cbpat8 {
\cf1\insrsid12597458 The translation of some terms has been brought into line with those of the series as a whole.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid12597458 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8460\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid12597458 \cbpat8 {
\insrsid12597458 The bibliographical and other conventions have been changed to align them with the other counties that have been revised for the current project.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid12597458 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri6\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8460\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin6\lin720\itap0\pararsid12597458 \cbpat8 {
\cf1\insrsid12597458 Certain changes have been necessary in the conversion of the notes to a searchable electronic version, such as to the lead words for the notes, to cross-references and to punctuation. 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid12597458 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8460\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid12597458 \cbpat8 {
\insrsid12597458 The form of the hundred names has been standardized so as to distinguish between those units that are named from places still extant and those that are not.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid12597458 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri6\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8460\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin6\lin720\itap0\pararsid12597458 \cbpat8 {
\insrsid12597458 A number of the forms of personal names have been changed as part of a continuing process to bring more consistency to the entire name stock of Domesday Book.}{\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid10577221 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid12597458\charrsid10577221 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab} }{\cf1\insrsid12597458 
Some of the people have been further identified. When the identification comes from the person's occurrence in o
ther documents or in other Domesday counties, this is shown in the translation between asterisks within square brackets. Where there is no documentary evidence for the identity of an individual, but it seems likely that a number of persons with the same f
i
rst name are one and the same, this has been indicated in the translation by putting the name of one of the estates held by that person between < >. In this county some of the notes to justify both these forms of identification have been written by John P
almer and these have been attributed to him as (JP) put at the end of his paragraph.}{\insrsid12597458 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid12597458 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8460\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid12597458 \cbpat8 {
\insrsid12597458 Northamptonshire estates that were later in Rutland have benefited from a fuller (but not exhaustive) annotation as a result of the full revision of the Domesday survey of }{\i\insrsid12597458\charrsid10577221 Roteland}{\insrsid12597458 
. 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid12597458 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}The section on the county boundary has been rewritten, with some consequential additions to the notes.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid12597458 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri6\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8460\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin6\lin720\itap0\pararsid12597458 \cbpat8 {
\insrsid12597458 In the Phillimore printed volume translations and annotation were provided for those places that lay outside Northamptonshire in 1086 but which were subsequently transferred to it. These places are tabulated here in \{
Introduction: The County Boundary\}; for translation and notes, now see the counties concerned.}{\cf1\insrsid12597458\charrsid10577221  }{\cf1\insrsid12597458 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid12597458 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8460\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin720\itap0\pararsid12597458 \cbpat8 {
\cf1\insrsid12597458 Obvious typographical errors in the Phillimore printed notes have been corrected.}{\insrsid12597458 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\tx720\tx8647\tx11117\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12597458 \cbpat8 {\insrsid12597458 
\par Caroline Thorn
\par Frank Thorn
\par February 2007
\par June 2007
\par 
\par 
\par }}