{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 
\snext0 \styrsid13185398 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx360\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \styrsid1467951 Body Text;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon0 \snext16 \sautoupd \styrsid10761145 Plain Text;}{\*\ts17\tsrowd\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \sbasedon11 \snext17 \styrsid10512260 Table Grid;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-294508044\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid67698691\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698693
\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\jclisttab\tx2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880
\jclisttab\tx2880\lin2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698691\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600\lin3600 }{\listlevel
\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698693\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320\lin4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698689\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040\lin5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0
\levelindent0{\leveltext\leveltemplateid67698691\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760\lin5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\leveltemplateid67698693\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480\lin6480 }{\listname ;}\listid1598632094}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1598632094\listoverridecount9{\lfolevel}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}
{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat
\levelstartat1}{\lfolevel\listoverridestartat\levelstartat1}\ls1}}{\*\pgptbl {\pgp\ipgp0\itap0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid282407\rsid1467951\rsid2454779\rsid2785210\rsid4199044\rsid4787573\rsid6816974\rsid8283657\rsid8868318\rsid10512260
\rsid10761145\rsid10945593\rsid11955707\rsid11956016\rsid12465270\rsid12544952\rsid12652855\rsid12738150\rsid12870409\rsid13185398\rsid13764953\rsid13768609\rsid13776222\rsid13793671\rsid14964512\rsid15603669\rsid15806094\rsid15994128}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info{\title SUFFOLK}{\author John Palmer}{\operator John Palmer}{\creatim\yr2007\mo7\dy5\hr10\min15}{\revtim\yr2007\mo7\dy15\hr22\min13}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords2659}{\nofchars15162}
{\*\company  University of Hull}{\nofcharsws17786}{\vern16389}}\paperw11909\paperh16834 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace180\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow2\dgvshow2\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nobrkwrptbl\snaptogridincell\allowfieldendsel\wrppunct
\asianbrkrule\rsidroot15994128 \fet0\sectd \psz9\linex0\headery706\footery706\colsx708\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid13764953\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11955707 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\fs28\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 SUFFOLK
\par }\pard\plain \s16\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11955707 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf2\insrsid11955707 (version 1a)
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri1148\widctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin1148\lin0\itap0\pararsid10512260 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid11955707 
\par }{\b\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 INTRODUCTION
\par }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri1148\widctlpar\tx284\tx2880\nooverflow\faroman\rin1148\lin0\itap0\pararsid10512260 \cbpat8 {\b\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 THE COUNTY BOUNDARY}{\b\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 The county of Suffolk has its origin as the southern division (or }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 folc}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  }{
\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
of the kingdom of the East Angles, divided from the northern division (Norfolk) by the rivers of the Little Ouse and the Waveney. To the south it is divided from Essex by the River Stour. Its western boundary against Cambridgeshire was formerly the River 
K
ennet, but part of it was moved westwards to include Exning in the twelfth century. There is evidence in the Domesday Survey of some tenurial association with estates in Norfolk: Alburgh, Diss, Gillingham, Gorleston, Hardwick, Kenninghall, Mundham, Redenh
a
ll, and Yarmouth; Cambridgeshire: Weston Colville; and with Essex Ardleigh, Brightlingsea, Bures (ESS 23,16 Bures note), Castle Hedingham, Great and Little Henny, Moze, and Nayland (ESS 24,57 Nayland note). The parish of Ballingdon-cum-Brundon was transfe
rred from Essex to the Borough of Sudbury in Suffolk in 1832 and 1835 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Place-Names of }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
Essex, p. 407 note); for its Domesday entries; see ESS 36,8 (Ballingdon); ESS 49,1;4 (Brundon) (ARR}{\cf1\insrsid10512260 ).}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri1148\widctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin1148\lin0\itap0\pararsid10512260 {\insrsid10512260 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri1148\widctlpar\tx284\tx2880\nooverflow\faroman\rin1148\lin0\itap0\pararsid10512260 \cbpat8 {\b\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 THE HUNDREDS AND HALF-HUNDREDS
\par }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Most of the twenty-five Suffolk hun
dreds and half-hundreds named in 1086 survived without much change into the nineteenth century. Some are termed alternatively 'hundred' or 'half-hundred' in Little Domesday and later medieval records and there appears to have been little actual difference
 
in legal status between the two terms in the post-Conquest period: a small hundred might occasionally be called a half-hundred, that was all. In the same way, the Hundred-and-a-Half of Sandford was sometimes termed just a hundred (see 3,67. 39,17. 40,6. e
t
c.). The double Hundred of Babergh is rather more consistently described as two hundreds, but not always (in 6,1 it is treated as a single hundred, for example). All were centres of the same type of hundredal jurisdiction, whatever their physical size or 
fiscal capacity (ARR).
\par \tab There is no evidence that the double Hundred of Babergh was formed by the union of two originally separate smaller hundreds. Several such fusions of hundreds or half-hundreds did occur in Suffolk, however, in the medieval period. The
 Hundreds of Blackburn and 'Brademere' were already intermingled by 1086 and had become the double Hundred of Blackburn by 1182. Bosmere Hundred and Claydon Hundred were joined together after 1086; later on, by the thirteenth century, a third part of Clay
don Hundred became the separate Half-Hundred of Thredling (the name itself meaning third part', from Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 thridling}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 ).}{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  }{
\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 The Half-Hundred of Parham was subsumed into the Hundred of 'Plomesgate' after 1086, and the latter was termed a Hundred-and-a-Half 
by 1240. Even as late as 1763, the two Half-Hundreds of Mutford (called Lothing Hundred in 1086) and 'Lothingland' were united to form a single hundred (ARR).
\par \tab Other changes to the list of Suffolk Hundreds made after 1086 include the name-change of Bishop'
s Hundred to Hoxne Hundred (by 1191); and the addition of the Half-Hundred of Exning (by 1199), after the transference of the parish from Cambridgeshire (ARR).
\par \tab Some of the hundreds or half-hundreds included detached parts in 1086. Claydon Hundred was then
 in three separate sections (hence Thredling Half-Hundred, mentioned above), while Parham Hundred was in two parts. Sudbury was a detached part of 'Thingoe' Hundred. Kelsale (and probably Aldringham and part of Carlton: see 6,69 Carlton note and 6,70 Aldr
ingham note) was an outlier of Bishop's Hundred. Kenton, Woodbridge, Butley, and Gedgrave were outliers of the Hundred of 'Loose' (ARR).
\par \tab The unit known as a Ferthing (from Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 feorthing }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 'a fourth part') is mentioned twice in Little Domesday Suffolk
, in connection with those of Aldham (14,112) and South Elmham (18,4): see 14,112 ferthing note (ARR).
\par \tab A group of eight and a half hundreds in the west of the county formed the Liberty of the Abbey of Bury St Edmunds in the medieval period. Although it is
 reputed to have been granted by Edward the Confessor, it is not specifically mentioned in the Domesday Survey. The Liberty included the Hundreds of Blackburn, 'Brademere', Lackford, Risbridge, Thedwastre, and 'Thingoe'; the double Hundred of Babergh; and
 the Half-Hundred of Cosford. A further five and a half hundreds in the south-east of the county belonged to the abbey of Ely. These were the hundreds of Carlford, 'Colnes', 'Loose', 'Plomesgate', and Wilford; and the Half-Hundred of Parham (ARR).
\par \tab There is
 no absolute consistency in the order in which the hundredal units occur within chapters in Little Domesday Suffolk. The following series occur in more than one chapter, however: (i) Thedwastre, 'Thingoe', Lackford, Babergh, Stowmarket, Ipswich, Bosmere, 
C
laydon, Sandford; (ii) Risbridge, Cosford, Bishop's, 'Blything', 'Colnes', Carlford, Wilford, 'Loose'; (iii) Parham, 'Plomesgate', 'Hartismere'; (iv) Wangford, Lothing, 'Lothingland'. Only the last of these makes obvious geographical sense. The others pro
bably reflect an order in which material was copied into Little Domesday or into a previous draft, rather than any conventional ordering of the Suffolk hundredal units. Some hundredal rubrics may have been omitted from chapter 6}{
\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 (see 6,207 Fressingfield note; 6,208 Knettishall note). Such omissions are rare in the Suffolk folios but others do occur (before 50,1 and 61,1 for example) (ARR).
\par \tab For further information about, and medieval references to, the Suffolk Hundreds and Half-Hundreds: see Anderson, }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 English Hundred-}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Names, pp. 83-98 (ARR).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10512260 {\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par For this electronic version of the Suffolk notes, the form of some hundred-names has been revised to align them more closely with the places from which they were named. Names in single inverted commas are no longer settlement sites:
\par }{\fs20\insrsid10512260\charrsid15603669 
\par }\trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx4153\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid282407\yts17 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid10512260\charrsid15603669 Phillimore printed edition\cell This revision\cell }\pard\plain 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid10512260\charrsid15603669 \trowd \irow0\irowband0\ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 \trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx4153\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\pararsid282407\yts17 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {
\fs20\insrsid10512260\charrsid15603669 
\par Babergh
\par Bishop's
\par Blackbourn
\par Bradmere
\par Blything
\par Bosmere
\par Carlford
\par Claydon
\par Colneis
\par Cosford
\par Hartismere
\par Ipswich
\par Lackford
\par Loes
\par Lothing
\par Lothingland
\par Parham
\par Plomesgate
\par Risbridge
\par Sanmord
\par Stow
\par Thedwestry
\par Thingoe
\par Wangford
\par Wilford
\par \cell 
\par Babergh
\par Bishop's
\par Blackburn
\par 'Brademere'
\par 'Blything'
\par Bosmere
\par Carlford
\par Claydon
\par 'Colnes'
\par Cosford
\par 'Hartismere'
\par Ipswich
\par Lackford
\par 'Loose'
\par Lothing
\par 'Lothingland'
\par Parham
\par 'Plomesgate'
\par Risbridge
\par Sandford
\par Stowmarket
\par Thedwastre
\par 'Thingoe'
\par Wangford
\par Wilford
\par \cell }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\intbl\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\fs20\insrsid10512260\charrsid15603669 \trowd \irow1\irowband1\lastrow \ts17\trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw10 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw10 
\trftsWidth1\trautofit1\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tbllkhdrrows\tbllklastrow\tbllkhdrcols\tbllklastcol \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 
\cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx4153\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw10 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw10 \cltxlrtb\clftsWidth3\clwWidth4428\clshdrawnil \cellx8417\row }\pard \ql \li0\ri1148\widctlpar
\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin1148\lin0\itap0\pararsid10512260 {\insrsid10512260 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }{\b\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 T}{\b\insrsid10512260 HE DOMESDAY FORMAT
\par T}{\b\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 he Text
\par }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 The text of the Domesday Survey for Suffolk is contained in Little Domesday (now preserved, with the larger volume, at the Public Record Office, London). The manuscript was written, by more than one scribe; on eith
er side of leaves, or folios, of parchment (sheep-skin) measuring about 11 inches by 8 inches (28 by 20 centimetres). On each side, or page, is a single column, making two to each folio. The folios were numbered in the 17th century, and the two columns of
 
each are here lettered a, b. Red ink was used to distinguish some chapter headings and most hundred headings. Deletion was marked by putting a line (in the ink of the text) through incorrect words. The running title on the recto of folios was usually an a
bbreviated form of the name of the Landholder whom the chapter concerned; the running title on the verso was an abbreviation of the county name (ARR).
\par 
\par }{\insrsid10512260 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri1148\widctlpar\tx284\tx2880\nooverflow\faroman\rin1148\lin0\itap0\pararsid10512260 \cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }{\b\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 RELATED OR }{\b\insrsid10512260 '}{\b\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 SATELLITE}{\b\insrsid10512260 '}{\b\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  TEXTS
\par }{\b\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par The Ely Enquiry (}{\b\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{\b\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 )}{\b\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 The Ely Inquiry, usua
lly referred to as IE is a collection of material relating to holdings of Ely Abbey in Cambridgeshire, Essex, Hertfordshire, Huntingdonshire, Norfolk, and Suffolk whose source appears to have been drafts (now lost) of the returns for three different circu
i
ts of the Domesday Survey. It was put together, for the benefit of Ely Abbey, very soon after 1086, but survives only in three manuscripts written in the second half of the twelfth century: British Library, Cotton Tiberius A.vi, folios 38-70 (manuscript A
; this manuscript also contains the sole surviving text of the }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Comitatus Cantabrigiensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  (ICC), for an account of which see CAM \{
Introduction: Related or Satellite Texts\}); Trinity College Cambridge 0.2.41, pages 161-274 (manuscript B) and 0.2.1,
 folios 177v-213 (manuscript C). Of these three manuscripts, B and C are derived from a common source, while A is a copy of B. Although B is now thought to be the most reliable of them. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{
\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 , was reproduced in record type in 1816}{\cf1\insrsid10512260  by Sir Henry Ellis from A (see }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Ellis, }{\i\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Domesday Book}{
\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 , iii. (}{\i\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Libri Censualis}{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 )}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 , pp. 495-528). N.E.S.A. Hamilton also used A as the base text for his edition of the }
{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  in 1876 (pages 97-168 of his }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Comitatus Cantabrigiensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 ), but al
so gave variant readings from B and C in footnotes. Footnotes to the Victoria County History translation of Little Domesday Suffolk (}{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 VCH}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  }{
\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Suffolk}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 , i. pp. 419-582) also supply items of extra information from the }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
, translated from Hamilton's edition (ARR).
\par \tab For Suffolk, the }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  (Hamilton, pp. 141-66 and summaries at p. 122) supplies details of the Ely Abbey holdings in the county (}{
\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 SUF }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 21)}{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 and of other pieces of land and rights claimed by the abbey. The order of entries is lar
gely on a hundredal basis but is not always the same as that in Little Domesday. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
 text does not include all the information to be found in Little Domesday, nor are its statistics always identical, but it does have some material not to be found in Little Domesday. Hamilton also edited some other documents, subsidiary to the }{
\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 , which are dependent on, or relevant to, the }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Domesday }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Survey. The }{
\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Breviate (Hamilton, pp. 168-73) gives summaries of the numbers of ploughs and people in each of the abbey's holdings, and the }{
\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Nomina Villarum }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
(Hamilton, pp. 174-75) lists the numbers of ploughs held by the villagers therein. These are followed by lists of holdings alienated from the abbey's possession (}{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{
\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  Alienations: Hamilton, pp. 175-89) and an account of an inquiry into the abbey's losses held between 1071 and 1075 (Hamilton, pp. 192-95). In the notes to the present edition, quotations from the }{
\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  and its related documents have only been given where information occurs which is different from, or extra to, that in Little Domesday (ARR).
\par \tab For further comments on }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  see Finn, '}{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
 reconsidered'. For the Ely Abbey claims: see Miller, 'Ely Land Pleas' and Blake, }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Liber Eliensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 , pp. 426-32. See also CAM \{Introduction: Related or Satellite Texts\}
for a sample of text from }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  (ARR).
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 The Feudal Book of Abbot Baldwin of [Bury] St Edmunds (Feudal Book of Abbot Baldwin).
\par }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Feudal Book of Abbot Baldwin}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
 is a survey of holdings in Suffolk, Norfolk, and Essex which belonged to the abbey of [Bury] St Edmunds (for Suffolk, }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 see SUF }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
14). The fullest surviving version of it forms part of the late twelfth-century section of the B
lack Book of the abbey, now Cambridge University Library, Mm. 4.19 (folios 124-43v), but its name associates its origin with the time of Abbot Baldwin (1065-1098). Part of }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Feudal Book of Abbot Baldwin}{
\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  is also included in the fourteenth-century Bury register, now Cambridge University Library, Ee. 3.60 (folios 178v and following); this part was edited by Hervey,}{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
 Pinchbeck Register}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 , i, p. 410 and following. The fullest modern edition of }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Feudal Book of Abbot Baldwin}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  is that by Douglas, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Feudal Documents from Bury St Edmunds}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 , pp. 3-44, with an introduction, pp. xlvi-lxvii. If in fact it was the work of Abbot Baldwin the }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
Feudal Book of Abbot Baldwin}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  dates from between 9 September 1087 and (?)29 December 1097, the respective dates of death of William I and of Abbot Baldwin; on the latter date, see Knowles, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Heads of Religious Houses}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 , p. 32. Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Feudal Documents from Bury St Edmunds}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
, xlviii-xlix, dates it between 7 September 1087 and 4 January 1098. However, Lennard, }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Rural England}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 , p. 359 has disputed the connecti
on with Abbot Baldwin and has suggested a terminal date of March 1119.
\par \tab The }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Feudal Book of Abbot Baldwin}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  contains three sections:
\par }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }{\b\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Section i}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 : folios 124-3lv, Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Feudal Documents from Bury St Edmunds}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
, pp. 3-15. A survey of the abbey's lordship manors in Norfolk and Suffolk and of the lands which the abbey's tenants held there when King William caused 'the survey of the whole of England' to be made and also on the day of his death. Within each hundred
 in the Suffolk portion the individual entries are largely given in the same order as in Little Domesday, but the hundreds themselves are in a different order, those in }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Feudal Book of Abbot Baldwin}{
\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  beginning with the eight-and-a-half hundreds of St Edmund's in the west of the county. A number of places are omitted from the }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Feudal Book of Abbot Baldwin}{
\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  and there are frequent differences between the statistics given in it and in Little Domesday (ARR).
\par }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }{\b\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Section}{\b\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  }{\b\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 ii}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 : folios 132-34v, Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
Feudal Documents from Bury St Edmunds}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 , pp. 15-24. A survey of the lands of the abbey's }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 feudati homines }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
in Norfolk, Suffolk, and Essex (two entries only), arranged by tenants rather than by hundred. In the Suffolk section not all the sub-tenancies given in Little Domesday are included and there are a number of discrepancies (ARR).
\par }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }{\b\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Section iii}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 : folios 135-43v, Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Feudal Documents from Bury St Edmunds}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
, pp. 25-44. A list of the holdings and rents or tax-liability of named peasants, relating only to thirty-one places in the Suffolk Hundreds of Thedwastre and Blackburn and the Half-Hundred of Cosford (ARR).
\par 
\par In the notes to the present }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid12465270 edition, reference to }{\i\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid12465270 Feudal Book of Abbot Baldwin}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid12465270  has only been made where information occurs}{
\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  which is different from, or extra to, that in Little Domesday (ARR).
\par 
\par }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri1148\widctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin1148\lin0\itap0\pararsid10512260 {\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par }{\b\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 EDITORIAL
\par State of Revision
\par }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Suffolk was published in the Phillimore series in 1986. It was edited by Alex Rumble f
rom a draft translation prepared by Marian Hepplestone, Barbara Hodge, Margaret Jones, Judy Plaister, Catherine Coutts, Faith Bowers and Elizabeth Teague. The maps were the work of David Bilbey. Alex Rumble expressed his thanks to others as follows: 'The 
Editor is grateful to Miss Philippa Brown for a preliminary collation of the Suffolk text to }{\i\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Feudal Book of Abbot Baldwin}{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  and }{\i\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Inquisitio Eliensis}
{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 ; and to the Suffolk County Record Office, Ipswich, for the use of maps of administrative divisions'.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri1148\widctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin1148\lin0\itap0\pararsid10512260 \cbpat8 {\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 \tab John Morr
is, the originator and first editor of the series had died in 1977 and the subsequent volumes in the series were brought out under the supervision of John McN. Dodgson and Alison Hawkins. A note at the end of the Introduction says: 'At the time of Dr Morr
i
s's death in June 1977, he had completed volumes 2 [Sussex], 3 [Surrey], 11 [Middlesex], 12 [Hertfordshire], 19 [Huntingdonshire], 23 [Warwickshire], 24 [Staffordshire]. He had more or less finished the preparation of volumes 13 [Buckinghamshire], 14 [Oxf
o
rdshire], 20 [Bedfordshire], 28 [Nottinghamshire]. These and subsequent volumes in the series were brought out under the supervision of John Dodgson and Alison Hawkins, who have endeavoured to follow, as far as possible, the editorial principles establish
ed by John Morris'. The preparation of the volume was greatly assisted by a generous grant from the Leverhulme Trust Fund.
\par 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 The present edition is part of a project to convert the annotation of the Phillimore printed volumes to electronic form and to revise
 them. The present small-scale revision is essentially an interim edition until time is available for a full-scale re-edition. }{\cf1\insrsid10512260 
Pressure of time has meant that it has not received as much attention as other of the lightly-revised counties; notably, no contribution to the editing has been made by Caroline Thorn. }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
For the present purpose only a limited number of changes have been made to the printed notes:
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri1148\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8647\faauto\ls1\rin1148\lin720\itap0\pararsid10512260 
\cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 The translation of some terms has been brought into line with those of the series as a whole.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri1148\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\faauto\ls1\rin1148\lin720\itap0\pararsid10512260 \cbpat8 {
\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 The bibliographical and other conventions have been changed to align them with the other counties that have been revised for the current project.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri1148\nowidctlpar
\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8460\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin1148\lin720\itap0\pararsid10512260 \cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Certain changes have been necessary in the conversion of the notes to a searchable electronic version, such as to th
e lead words for the notes, to cross-references and to punctuation.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri1148\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\faauto\ls1\rin1148\lin720\itap0\pararsid10512260 \cbpat8 {
\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 The form of the hundred names has been standardized so as to distinguish between those units that are named from places still extant and those that are not.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}A number of the forms of personal names have been changed as part of a}{\cf1\insrsid10512260 n ongoing}{
\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779  process to bring more consistency to the entire name stock of Domesday Book.
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri1148\nowidctlpar\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin1148\lin720\itap0\pararsid10512260 
\cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Some of the people have been further identified. When the identification comes from the person'
s occurrence in other documents or in other Domesday counties, this is shown in the translation between asterisks within square brackets. Where there is no documentary evidence for the identity of an individual, but it seems likely that a number of person
s with the same first name are one and the same, this has been indicated in the translation by putting the name of one of the estates held by that person between < >. In this county the notes to justify both these forms of identification }{
\cf1\insrsid10512260 have largely been }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 written by }{\cf1\insrsid10512260 John }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 P}{\cf1\insrsid10512260 
almer and these have been attributed to him as (JP) put at the end of his paragraph}{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 .}{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par {\listtext\pard\plain\f3\cf1\lang2057\langfe1033\langnp2057\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-360\li720\ri1148\nowidctlpar
\tx284\jclisttab\tx720\tx8460\tx8640\faauto\ls1\rin1148\lin720\itap0\pararsid10512260 \cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Obvious typographical errors }{\cf1\insrsid10512260 in the Phillimore notes }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
have been corrected.}{\cf1\insrsid10512260 
\par }\pard \ql \li360\ri1148\widctlpar\tx284\tx8460\tx8640\nooverflow\faroman\rin1148\lin360\itap0\pararsid10512260 \cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid10512260 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
All the notes in the Phillimore printed edition are attributed here to Alex Rumble (ARR), although he, like the other editors, incorporated in his edition a body of standard notes, mostly written by John Morris, but also by other editors in the series. Jo
hn Dodgson also supplied some notes on philological matters. }{\cf1\insrsid10512260 Some notes were written by Natasha Hodgson and are attributed to her as (NH). }{\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
Where the present editors have found it necessary to insert material within ARR's notes, such as the translation of Latin quotations, this is enclosed in square brackets.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri1148\widctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin1148\lin0\itap0\pararsid10512260 \cbpat8 {\cf1\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 Frank Thorn
\par January 2007
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri1148\widctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faroman\rin1148\lin0\itap0\pararsid10512260 {\insrsid10512260\charrsid2454779 June 2007
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid8868318 {\insrsid15994128\charrsid8868318 
\par }}