{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}{\f36\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f77\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Helvetica CE;}
{\f78\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Helvetica Cyr;}{\f80\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Helvetica Greek;}{\f81\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Helvetica Tur;}{\f82\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Helvetica (Hebrew);}{\f83\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Helvetica (Arabic);}
{\f84\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Helvetica Baltic;}{\f85\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Helvetica (Vietnamese);}{\f397\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f398\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f400\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f401\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f402\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f403\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f404\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f405\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 
\snext0 \styrsid4789874 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\sb240\sa120\keepn\nowidctlpar
\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \f4\fs28\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Heading;}{\s16\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{\s17\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\sa120\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \f36\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon16 \snext17 List;}{\s18\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\sb120\sa120\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \i\f36\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 \ssemihidden caption;}{
\s19\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \f36\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Index;}{\s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Plain Text;}{\s21\ql \fi-1134\li1134\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1134\tx1418\tx9781\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1134\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext21 dday;}{\*\cs22 \additive \f3 RTF_Num 2 1;}{\*\cs23 \additive RTF_Num 2 2;}{\*\cs24 \additive RTF_Num 2 3;}{\*\cs25 \additive RTF_Num 2 4;}{\*\cs26 \additive RTF_Num 2 5;}{\*\cs27 
\additive RTF_Num 2 6;}{\*\cs28 \additive RTF_Num 2 7;}{\*\cs29 \additive RTF_Num 2 8;}{\*\cs30 \additive RTF_Num 2 9;}{\s31\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext31 \styrsid9772974 footer;}{\*\cs32 \additive \sbasedon10 \styrsid9772974 page number;}{\s33\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext33 \styrsid9772974 header;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid460933\rsid2233925\rsid2368149\rsid4789874\rsid5064180\rsid8998197
\rsid9772974\rsid13776997\rsid14182768\rsid14903298}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info{\author matt}{\operator John Palmer}{\creatim\yr2007\mo7\dy21\hr20\min54}{\revtim\yr2007\mo7\dy31\hr9\min58}{\printim\yr2113\mo1\dy1}{\version10}{\edmins65}
{\nofpages22}{\nofwords11402}{\nofchars64998}{\*\company  University of Hull}{\nofcharsws76248}{\vern16389}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt720\margb720 
\deftab1080\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\makebackup\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot14182768 
\fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sectrsid9772974\sftnbj {\footer \pard\plain \s31\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid13776997 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\field{\*\fldinst {\cs32\fs16\insrsid9772974\charrsid9772974 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs32\fs16\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid14903298 16}}}{\cs32\fs16\insrsid9772974\charrsid9772974 
\par }\pard \s31\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri360\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\nooverflow\faauto\rin360\lin1080\itap0\pararsid9772974 {\insrsid9772974 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s21\qc \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid2368149 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid14182768 NOTES
\par }{\insrsid14182768\charrsid460933 (version 1a)}{\insrsid4789874 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid2368149 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid14182768 BEDFORDSHIRE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Bedefordscire }{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 in red at the top of each page, over both columns (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14903298 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 B1\tab HIDES. The hide was the unit of measurement of land, of productivity, of extent,}{\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
or of tax liability, and contained four virgates. Governments tried to standardize the hide at 120 acres, but}{\b\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 incomplete revision left hides of widely different extent in different areas; see Sussex \{
Introduction: The Hide\}. In Bedfordshire (32,14. 39,3), 
as occasionally elsewhere, woodland was sometimes measured by the hide. If the Bedfordshire hides regularly included all productive land, they might have been standardized at 120 acres, 1200 of them accounting for a little under half the total area of the
 shire (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab BISHOP REMIGIUS.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  Of Lincoln (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab VALUE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Valet }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 normally means the sums due to lords from their lands (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab 100s. Domesday uses the English currency system, in force until 1971. The pound contained 20 shillings, each of 12 pence, and the abbreviations \'a3.s.d. preserved the Domesday terms }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 librae}{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  solidi}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  denarii}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
Domesday often lists smaller sums in multiples of shillings rather than of pounds, as here. 100s means \'a35 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 L41\tab LOVET. Old French }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 louet}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 wolf-cub; see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
, p. 363; distinct from English }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Levet }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (20,1) (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 L50\tab ARGENTON. Or, less probably, Argentan; see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Old English Bynames }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 69 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 1,1a\tab 30 HIDES. 47 with those of 1,1b, 43 without 1,lc. The commonest figures are multiples of 5 hides, the old English basis for military and other obligations; see, for example, BRK B10 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LAND FOR 52 PLOUGHS. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 An estimate of the arable, probably earlier than 1066 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab MEADOW FOR 40 PLOUGHS. For the oxen who pull the plough, reckoned at eight (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab DOG DUES. Payments replacing the obligation to feed and kennel the king's hounds (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab IVO TALLBOYS. He increased the payments of the king's three }{\i\insrsid14182768 dominica maneria }{\insrsid14182768 ['lordship manors'],}{\i\insrsid14182768  }{\insrsid14182768 
evidently those which had been King Edward's; to each of them his bro
ther Ralph, the sheriff, added manors which had not been King Edward's. Ivo was a magnate, later steward to William II, and survived till about 1115. He is chiefly remembered as an outstanding commander in the king's siege of Hereward and the English earl
s
 in Ely in 1069, and as an enemy to the monks of Crowland. Ralph acquired most of the numerous manors of Eskil of Ware, but exchanged Ware (in Hertfordshire) with Hugh of Grandmesnil for various Bedfordshire lands. He died before 1086, and most of his lan
ds passed to Hugh of Beauchamp, but some went to his widow, his daughter and his niece, married to Ranulf son of Ilger. His heirs and the two Hughs disputed many items of the inheritance; see chapter 23, especially 23,7 Ware note (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 

\par }{\insrsid14182768 1,1b\tab 10 HIDES ... PLACED. Probably including Eggington, Stanbridge and Billington, not named in Domesday, since 47 hides is over large for Leighton Buzzard on its own (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 1,1c\tab BISHOP WULFWY. Of Dorchester-on-Thames, died 1067; under his successor, Remigius, the see was transferred to Lincoln (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 1,2a\tab [IN 'MANSHEAD' HUNDRED]. Luton was later in Flitton Hundred, but not in Domesday; it was therefore presumably in 'Manshead' Hundred in 1086, probably in "Odecroft" Hundred before 10
66 (1,4 "Odecroft" note). Dunstable was a deserted Roman ruin, not yet resettled (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 1,3\tab HOUGHTON [REGIS]. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 The manuscript clearly has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 HOVSTONE}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ; unclear in Farley's print (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 1,4\tab QUEEN EDITH. Wife of King Edward, daughter of Earl Godwin (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab "ODECROFT" HUNDRED. Otherwise unknown. Evidently merged in 'Manshead' and Stanbridge Hundreds, both of which were much above the normal size of other hundreds; see \{Introduction: Hundreds\}. The meeting place was presumably }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Wodecroft }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 in Luton, last recorded in 1372 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 160); the hundred therefore probably included Luton (JRM). [The }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  regards the identification as 'not certain', and the name has here been left in its Latin form. For further discussion, see }{\insrsid14182768 Thorn, 'Hundreds and Wapentakes', }{
\i\insrsid14182768 Bedfordshire Domesday}{\insrsid14182768 , pp. 58-59 and note 56.]}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab INCREASE IT GAVE HIM. Or possibly 'he gave' (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 1,5\tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab PLACED IT. Latin }{\i\insrsid14182768 apposuit }{\insrsid14182768 is}{\i\insrsid14182768  }{\insrsid14182768 accidentally repeated, and deleted (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab ANOTHER 5 HIDES. Per}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 haps those of Caddington (JRM).
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab FROM ANOTHER HUNDRED. The occasions of transfers from one hundred to another are rarely noted in Domesday, though transfers were plainly frequent. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
 maps later changes, and Domesday entries point to earlier changes (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 2,2\tab ANSGOT OF ROCHESTER. See 2,3 Ansgot note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab FROM THE BISHOP OF BAYEUX'S HOLDING. }{\i\insrsid14182768 De fedo}{\insrsid14182768  is a}{\i\insrsid14182768  }{\insrsid14182768 manuscript error for }{\i\insrsid14182768 de feudo}{\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\insrsid14182768  }{
\insrsid14182768 meaning the bishop's entire Holding. }{\i\insrsid14182768 In feudo }{\insrsid14182768 is occasionally used in Domesday for land held by a special grant, sometimes for life; see SUS 11,8 holding note (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 2,3\tab ANSGOT [* OF ROCHESTER *]. Tenant of the Bishop of Bayeux, principally in Kent but also in Bedfordshire and Surrey, a
nd possibly also in Buckinghamshire (4,35) where he is named Ansgot of Rots. As the only Ansgot in the county, his tenure from the bishop makes the identification a probable one. No Ansgots other than tenants of the bishop are recorded either in Kent or B
edfordshire, and only one unidentified Ansgot in Surrey, so the tenurial argument for identification is compelling. See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 157 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab 7 FREEMEN. See \{Introduction: Freemen\}.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 2,4\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. Although the name Burgre
d occurs almost 60 times in Domesday Book, it was probably borne by fewer than half-a dozen individuals, of whom the royal thane, Burgred, was the most important. He and his sons were predecessors of Bishop Geoffrey of Coutances in Bedfordshire, Buckingha
m
shire and Northamptonshire, his estates clustering around the junction of the three counties. Of the five Burgred holdings in those counties unconnected with Bishop Geoffrey, two lay in vills where Burgred <of Olney> had another holding (2,4. BUK 12,34), 
a
nd two others were in vills adjacent to holdings of his (25,6. 54,4). All five belonged to men of Burgred; and since no other Burgred is named in those counties, it is probable that all five were men of Burgred <of Olney>. Outside these three counties the
 only other unidentified Burgreds were a tenant Robert of Stafford on two very modest, distant holdings in Staffordshire, and a number of holdings in the furthest south-west. See Round, }{\i\insrsid14182768 VCH Bedfordshire}{\insrsid14182768 
, pp. 195-96, and Clarke, }{\i\insrsid14182768 English Nobility}{\insrsid14182768 , pp. 267-71,
 who omits some of these holdings. Abels has interesting remarks on the attraction of Burgred's compact estate to men in search of a lord: Abels, 'Introduction', }{\i\insrsid14182768 Alecto Bedfordshire}{\insrsid14182768 , pp. 37-38 (JP).}{
\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 2,5\tab BEFORE 1066. Farley has }{\i\insrsid14182768 T.R. ... }{\insrsid14182768 ; }{\i\insrsid14182768 T.R.E. }{\insrsid14182768 is legible beneath a manuscript blot (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 2,6\tab 'BUCKELOWE' ... \'bd POSSIBLE. The manuscript is blotted. Read }{\i\insrsid14182768 Boch}{\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\insrsid14182768 el}{\insrsid14182768 ]}{\i\insrsid14182768 ai}{\insrsid14182768  ... }{\i\insrsid14182768 Stach}{
\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\insrsid14182768 eden}{\insrsid14182768 ]}{\i\insrsid14182768 e }{\insrsid14182768 ... }{\i\insrsid14182768 p}{\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\insrsid14182768 ot}{\insrsid14182768 ].}{\i\insrsid14182768  }{\insrsid14182768 
See 3,4 before note (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab 7 SMALLHOLDERS. The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 vii}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ;}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Farley, in error, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 vi }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (JRM).}{
\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 2,8\tab WIMUND. Probably of Tessel; see 23,37 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab HERBERT [* SON OF IVO *]. A tenant of the Bishop of Bayeux in Kent, Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire. As the only unidentified Herbert in Bedfordshire is the bishop's tenant, his identification as the son of Hubert is pro
bable, further confirmed by the relationship with his nephew, Hugh (2,9). See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 250, who omits the Hertfordshire holding (HRT 10,9) (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ALWOLD [* AETHELWOLD *] OF STEVINGTON.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  See 15,2 (JRM).}{\insrsid14182768 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab \tab In 15,2 the Domesday form is }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Adelold}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 us}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ] which represents Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 \'c6thelweald}{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 : von Feilitzen, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 188. This suggests that the Domesday form here }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Aluuoldi}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
 (genitive case) and those in 15,1;4-7. 53,1 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Aluuold}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 us}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ]) also represented this name; see von Feilitzen, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 ibidem}{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 188 note 9. It is likely that all these references to Aethelwold, 'King Edward's thane/man' are to Aethelwold of Stevington. See }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 VCH Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , i. p. 202 note 2}{
\insrsid14182768 .
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab \tab }{\insrsid14182768 Alwold, a royal thane and the predecessor of Count 
Eustace of Boulogne in Bedfordshire, is named in an entry for Turvey (2,8), another part of which devolved from him upon Count Eustace. He is probably also the royal thane who preceded Countess Judith at Maulden (53,1) since two men of this rank of the sa
me name in a small county is unlikely. See Clarke, }{\i\insrsid14182768 English Nobility}{\insrsid14182768 , pp. 232-33, who does not include Maulden (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 2,9\tab HERBERT [* SON OF IVO *]. See 2,9 Herbert note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab THE VILLAGERS. As a general term, including Freemen and smallholders (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,1\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,2\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,3\tab LAND FOR [5? PLOUGHS]. The manuscript is difficult to read; probably }{\i\insrsid14182768 v car }{\insrsid14182768 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,4\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab BEFORE 1066 ... 5 FREEMEN. The manuscript is blotted, facing 2,6. Read [}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 T}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 R.E. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ... }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 v. }{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 so}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 chi}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 and, in 3,5, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 d}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 [}{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 api}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 fer}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 The stop after }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 v}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 before [}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 so}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 chi}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 is clear in the manuscript (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,5\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,6\tab EASTON}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 . See the }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Inquisitio Eliensis}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  (Hamilton, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Inquisitio Comitatus Cantabrigiensis}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 166): }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 in comitatu Huntedonie. Spalduuic abbas de ely habet unum manerium de .xv. hidis ad geldum intra manerium 7 Bereuuicas Estou}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  Estune}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 
 Bercheham & .xv. carucae possunt arare terram istam. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
('In Huntingdonshire. Spaldwick: the abbot of Ely has a manor of 15 hides, taxable within the manor, and the outliers (Long) Stow, Easton and Barham. 15 ploughs can plough this lan
d'). The places adjoin each other; see HUN 4,4 Spaldwick note. See also HUN D19: 'The County testifies that the third part of \'bd hide which lies in Easton (}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Estone}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 and pays tax in Bedfordshire belongs to the Abbot of Ely's manor of Spaldwick'. Eustace had annexed it in 1071. Spaldwick was in Huntingdonshire, but Easton paid tax in Bedfordshire. The eleven entries for Easton total 9 \'bd
 hides. It may have been a ten-hide manor, the other half-hide being a portion of the Spaldwick outlier which Eustace had not annexed (JRM).}{\insrsid14182768 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab \tab In 1881 Airy, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Digest of Domesday Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 44, emended }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Estone }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 to }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Weston}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
 which he took to mean 'wasteland', and therefore located it on 'the high clay table of Little Staughton', which was 'one of a series of }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Westens}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ',}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
including Westoning, similarly emended. In 1904 Round (}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 VCH Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , i. pp. 213-14) properly rejected this etymology (with which he paralleled Airy's derivation of }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Segresdone }{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 (Shirdon) from 'sacristan') and the consequent location; he suggested the obv
ious Easton, noting that William of Warenne's Honour of Kimbolton later retained 1 hide of Easton, where in 1086 he had held over 2 hides (17,4-7). But the identification with Little Staughton was repeated by }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 
Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 20, in 1926, adding '}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 sic}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ', and by the }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , without qualification (JRM)
\par \tab \tab The Domesday manor was clearly larger than the later parish. In proportion to the acreage, ploughs and assessed ploughs were both four times as numerous as in the neighbouring parishe
s of Staughton, which include the Domesday manors of Dillington and Perry. Easton therefore probably included part of Great Staughton, now in Huntingdonshire, and all or part of Little Staughton, now in Bedfordshire. It might have consisted of scattered p
ortions, but since such separate outliers are normally individually recorded in Bedfordshire, it may have been a single area, with uncertain bounds, separated from Tilsworth by the Honour and former Hundred of Kimbolton, in Huntingdonshire (JRM).}{
\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,7\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,8\tab BLEADON. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 The Bishop of Coutances also exchanged Tyringham and Clifton [Reynes] (BUK 5,10;18) for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Bledone}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
The only place named in Domesday with the same or similar spelling (Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 bleo dun}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 'blue}{\cf1\up6\insrsid14182768 '}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
, or 'coloured', 'hill') is Bleadon in Somerset, with which }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 VCH Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , i. p. 225 note 2, identified it, followed by the }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
. But Bleadon was held by the Bishop}{\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
of Winchester before and after 1066 (SOM 2,3), whereas all the lands which the Bishop of Coutances received had been held by men of the king, except Tyringham, held by two thanes, one of them a man of Earl Waltheof, whose lands fell to the king on his exe
cution, the other without a named lord. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Bledone }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
should therefore be a manor formerly held by the king or his men. There are two main alternative possibilities, either a variant spelling of Blewbury or Blewburton (}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 bleo byrig dune}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ); see }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Berkshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
, pp. 151-52), a manor of King Edward's and King William's (BRK 1,5), or a lost place. Since the lands which the bishop received lay close together, about the junction of Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Northamptonshire, Domesday may have omitted a kin
g's manor in this area. Elsewhere the text occasionally refers to a manor not listed in the Survey (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,9\tab NEWTON [BROMSWOLD]. Another portion was held in Northamptonshire (NTH 4,20) in 1086 by the Bishop of Coutances. The whole parish is now in Northamptonshire; Domesday enters only a small part in Bedfordshire (JRM).}{
\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,10\tab 4 HIDES. Possibly in Chellington, not named in Domesday, but held by Geoffrey's heirs: }{\i\insrsid14182768 VCH Bedfordshire}{\insrsid4789874 , i. p. 225 (JRM).
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 3,11\tab TURVEY. The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Tornai }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Torvai}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ;}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 so also 24,23 [}{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Torneia}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ] and 32,3 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Tornei}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ] (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,13\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,14\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,15\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 3,16\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 3,17\tab RUSHDEN. For other parts, see 22,2 and NTH 35,1, where 6 hides in Rushden are held as part of Higham Ferrers by William Peverel.}{\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
The present entry had been held by one of Burgred's men, 22,2 by one of Countess Gy
tha's, who was William Peverel's predecessor elsewhere. Rushden is now wholly in Northamptonshire. Podington (32,5) and Farndish (42,1) were also shared with Northamptonshire (JRM).}{\insrsid14182768 
\par \tab \tab See also 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab OXEN. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Terra ... bobus }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (dative), but }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 pratum bouum }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (genitive) (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 4,2\tab HUGH OF BEAUCHAMP. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab WILLIAM ^[OF CAIRON]^ 'S FATHER. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Evidently one of the Normans who held from King Edward before 1066 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 4,3\tab 20 PIGS. }{\i\insrsid14182768 Porc' }{\insrsid14182768 accidentally repeated, but not deleted (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 4,5\tab VALUE ... 6s. The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 vi sol}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ;}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 the }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 i }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 is thinner and fainter than the }
{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 v}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 but is clear and distinct;}{\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Farley, in error, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 v sol }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (JRM).}{
\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 6\tab ST. EDMUND. Bury St Edmunds (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 6,1\tab ORDWY OF BEDFORD. He}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  held more}{\cf1\insrsid4789874  land in Biddenham, 56,3 (JRM).}{\insrsid14182768 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab \tab }{\insrsid14182768 See also 53,27 Ordwy note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab REEVE OF THE BOROUGH. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Rarely recorded in Domesday (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 6,2\tab 'KINWICK'. See }{\i\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 109 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 7,1\tab STANWICK. In 1086 another portion was in Northamptonshire (NTH 6,17) held by Peterborough Abbey. Two-thirds of Stanwick was in Bedfordshire in 1086; it is now all in Northamptonshire (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 8,1\tab PLOUGH IRON. Primarily for plough-shares; from the woodland, where the fuel was; iron was forged more easily there than by hauling timber to the village (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 8,4\tab EUDO THE STEWARD. See 28,1 Eudo note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 8,5\tab EUDO THE STEWARD. See 28,1 Eudo note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 8,6\tab 
LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. The Young Leofwin who had five holdings in Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire was probably the individual, known from a bequest to St Albans Abbey as Leofwin of Caddington. His father bequeathed land to him in three of these five 
vills (Sawyer, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Anglo-Saxon Charters}{\insrsid14182768 
, no. 1517). One of the other two (Kensworth) was adjacent to Caddington and the Beeston lay in the same general line along the border between the two counties. It seems probable they were held by the same individual. If n
ot, the scribe might have attempted to distinguish men of such exalted and uncommon status: no other names in Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire were distinguished by the title }{\i\insrsid14182768 cilt}{\insrsid14182768 
 whereas the neighbouring county of Buckinghamshire was home to four (JP).
\par \tab \tab Yo
ung Leofwin was described as a royal thane in three of the five entries which raises the possibility that others of that description might also be Leofwin of Caddington. This was certainly the case at Caddington itself, and at Meppershall. In both cases, 
the vill was split by the county boundary, Leofwin holding both halves of the vill, but described in Bedfordshire as Young Leofwin and in Hertfordshire simply as a royal thane (JP).
\par \tab \tab In five of the remaining seven cases, a royal thane named Leofwin had bee
n succeeded by Walter of Flanders who also succeeded to three other holdings of Leofwins not designated royal thanes. It is probable that these eight Leofwins were the same individual. Apart from some anonymous Freemen, all but two of Walter's 40 estates 
devolved upon him from a Leofwin or a Leofnoth, evidently his designated }{\i\insrsid14182768 antecessores}{\insrsid14182768 
. Of these eight holdings, three lay in the adjacent vills of Libury and Munden; the remaining five were grouped closely together, five miles or less to the north-west of Meppershall, suggesting that Walter's }{\i\insrsid14182768 antecessor}{
\insrsid14182768  was Leofwin of Caddington (JP).
\par \tab \tab Other links point in the same direction. Nigel of Aubigny, who acquired Streatley from Leofwin of Caddington, also obtained Millbrook from Godwin son of Leofwin (24,9), perha
ps his son, and Stratton from Leofwin. Stratton was a vill in which a Leofwin held from Walter of Flanders (JP).
\par \tab \tab Among the other Leofwins holding in the two counties, several had links with those discussed above. At Libury, both Walter of Flanders and Od
o of Bayeux had been preceded by a Leofwin (HRT 5,10); as had Peter of Valognes in the adjacent vill of Sacombe (HRT 36,11). Peter's antecessor had been a man of Earl Harold, as was Walter's predecessor in the neighbouring vill of Munden and Ralph Tallboy
s' in Hunsdon (HRT 44,1). While not in any way conclusive, these links tend to reinforce each another and the identification with Leofwin of Caddington (JP).
\par \tab \tab The remaining holdings held by the royal thane were at Barley and Bushey which have no apparent l
inks to the remainder other than the status of the thane and their properties, both retained in demesne by the tenants-in-chief who acquired them (HRT 29,1. 33,2). The only other estates held by a Leofwin in the two counties were at Clifton and Totternhoe
 
(8,6. 40,3) and Boarscroft and Bozen in Hertfordshire (HRT 15,8. 20,12). Clifton was surrounded by the holdings already identified and Totternhoe was just a few miles from Caddington, so both might have belonged to Leofwin of Caddington even though Leofwi
n at Totternhoe was Earl Waltheof's man. Moreover, as Fowler pointed out long ago (}{\i\insrsid14182768 Bedfordshire in 1086}{\insrsid14182768 
, p. 105), the unidentified 'Puttanho' in the will of Leofwin of Caddington's father is a likely scribal error for Totternhoe, 'by the common mistake of p for \'de
, Thotenho being a known early spelling of this name'. Bozen, on the other hand, is unlikely to have been held by him. The holding was tiny and was in the lordship of Godwin of Benfield, demeaning for a royal thane. Finally, the holding at Boarscroft
 raises an intriguing possibility. Although a modest property, it had been held freely, from King Edward. In 1086 it was still held by Leofwin, but 'at a revenue' from the tenant-in-chief who superseded him. Was this another example of an Anglo-Saxon magn
ate clinging precariously to a fragment of his previous estate? Fowler thought so (}{\i\insrsid14182768 Bedfordshire in 1086}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 105 note p) (JP).
\par \tab \tab Outside Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire, there are only two other occurrences of a royal thane named Leofwin, at Ingham in Suffolk
 (SUF 8,32) and Ravenstone in Buckinghamshire (14,42). There are no tenurial or other links with the Suffolk holding, over 70 miles away. Ravenstone, however, was within 20 miles of other Caddington holdings; and given the limited distribution of royal th
anes named Leofwin, and the absence of other holdings which might plausibly be attributed to this royal thane in Buckinghamshire, it is perhaps more likely than not that this is also Leofwin of Caddington (JP).
\par \tab \tab Young Leofwins occur in four other counties: Essex, Suffolk, Shropshire and Derbyshire. Stenton was of the opinion that the title }{\i\insrsid14182768 cilt}{\insrsid14182768 
 was 'unlikely to have been applied to two different persons of the same name' and identified Young Leofwin in Derbyshire (DBY 6,29. 16,1) as Leofwin of Caddington on that basis (}{\i\insrsid14182768 VCH}{\insrsid14182768  }{\i\insrsid14182768 Derbyshire}
{\insrsid14182768 , i. 322), despite the remoteness and insignificance of the Derbyshire holdings. As there are no links other than the title }{\i\insrsid14182768 cilt}{\insrsid14182768 
 between Leofwin of Caddington and the Young Leofwins of other counties, there is unfortunately no wa
y of testing this; but the fact that Leofwin was a common name, taken together with concentrated nature of the Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire holdings compared to the dispersal of the remainder, makes the identification less rather than more likely (JP).}
{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 8,8\tab HOLWELL. It}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  was transferred to Hertfordshire in 1894, but Holwellbury remains in Bedfordshire. The two entries (8,8. 9,1) refer to both (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 8,9\tab VALUE. Added in smaller lettering (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 9,1\tab HOLWELL. It was transferred to Hertfordshire in 1894, but Holwellbury remains in Bedfordshire. The two entries (8,8. 9,1) refer to both (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 10,1\tab CARUCATE. Not the }{\i\insrsid14182768 carucata }{\insrsid14182768 of the Danish Shires. Here equivalent to 'Land for 1 plough', as in the }{\i\insrsid14182768 Liber Exoniensis}{\insrsid14182768 
 and other comparable records. In the Home Counties, used of lordship land, probably exempt from the king's tax. See HUN B18;21 and entries for Hurstingstone Hundred, where additional 'Land for }{\i\insrsid14182768 n}{\insrsid14182768  ploughs' and }{
\i\insrsid14182768 carucatae }{\insrsid14182768 are equated with each other, but distinguished from }{\i\insrsid14182768 inland }{\insrsid14182768 in HUN 6,19. Interlinear correct
ions there and in MDX 24,1 suggest that Domesday was itself in some doubt as to when }{\i\insrsid14182768 carucae }{\insrsid14182768 ('ploughs'), and when }{\i\insrsid14182768 carucatae}{\insrsid14182768  ['carucates']}{\i\insrsid14182768  }{
\insrsid14182768 should be written for the abbreviated }{\i\insrsid14182768 car' }{\insrsid14182768 (JRM).}{\i\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 12,1\tab CADDINGTON. Another portion was held in Hertfordshire in 1086 by St Paul's of London (HRT 13,2).In 1066 it had been held by (Young) Leofwin (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid4789874 \tab \tab The parish of Caddington was not reunited until 1897, when the Hertfordshire portion, together with the adjoining parish of Kensworth, also held by Leofwin (HRT 13,1), was transferred to Bedfordshire (JRM).
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab \tab About 1053 Leofwin's father, Edwin of Caddington, bequeathed Watford, where Leofwin held Bushey (HRT 33,2), to St. Alban's, and 'to my son Leofwin' Sundon, Caddington, Streatley (24,18), [Cockayne] Hatley, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Pirian}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Putnoe and Barley (HRT 29,1): Kemble, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Codex Diplomaticus}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , no. 920 (= Sawyer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 
Anglo-Saxon Charters}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , no. 1517). Domesday enters other 1066 lay holders for Sundon, Hatley}{\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 and Putnoe, and Leofwin's lands at Beeston and Meppershall are not named in his father's
 will. A few years later 'Leofwin of Caddington}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 ' }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
was one of the witnesses to Oswulf s grant of Studham to St Albans; see 26,1 Studham note. He was a king's thane, possibly identical with Leofwin, Earl Harold's man, in Hertfordshire (JRM).}{\insrsid14182768 
\par \tab YOUNG LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. See 8,6 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 13,1\tab BIDDENHAM. Added in the margin (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 14\tab ERNWIN. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Ernui }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Ernuuin }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 14,1\tab ERNWIN THE PRIEST. He also held in Nottinghamshire, Lincolnshire, and the future Lancashire (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab \'bd PLOUGH. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Half a plough there, but no inhabitants mentioned, as in several smaller Bedfordshire holdings. ' \'bd plough possible' omitted (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 15\tab COUNT EUSTACE. Of Boulogne, brother-in-law of King Edward (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 15,1\tab ARNULF OF ARDRES. See 15,2 Arnulf note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 15,2\tab ARNULF [* OF ARDRES *]. Arnulf was a tenant of Count Eustace of Boulogne in Bedfordshire and Cambridgeshire. As the only unidentified Arnulfs in those counties were the count's tenants, the tenurial argument for
 identification is strong. See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 192, for his career and family (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab AETHELWOLD [* OF STEVINGTON *]. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Adeloldus}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Aethelwold. But he is plainly identical with }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Aluuoldus}{
\cf1\insrsid14182768  of Stevington (2,8), and therefore with }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Aluuoldus}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  of 15,1;4-7 (JRM). See also 2,8 Aethelwold note}{\insrsid14182768  (JP)}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 .}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 15,4\tab ARNULF OF ARDRES. See 15,2 Arnulf note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ALWOLD [* AETHELWOLD OF STEVINGTON *]. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See 2,8 Aethelwold note.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 15,5\tab ARNULF OF ARDRES. See 15,2 Arnulf note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ALWOLD [* AETHELWOLD OF STEVINGTON *]. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See 2,8 Aethelwold note.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 15,6\tab ARNULF OF ARDRES. See 15,2 Arnulf note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab 'LAND FOR}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  5 ploughs' omitted (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ALWOLD [* AETHELWOLD OF STEVINGTON *]. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See 2,8 Aethelwold note.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 15,7\tab ALWOLD [* AETHELWOLD OF STEVINGTON *]. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See 2,8 Aethelwold note.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 16,1\tab ALRIC [* SON OF GODING *]. The bulk of his holdings, which lay in Buckinghamshire, devolved upon the Count of Mortain, or Walter Giffard as here. His designation as royal thane further confirms the identification. For a mo
re detailed account of his estates, see BUK 14,9 Alric note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 16,2\tab BATTLESDEN. In all, 11 hides; with its neighbour, Chalgrave [20,2. 49,1], 9 hides, a total of 20 hides (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 16,5\tab DUNTON.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Domtone}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  is a manuscript error for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Donitone }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 16,7\tab FULCHER OF PARIS. See also 24,26 Fulcher note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 16,8\tab RALPH [* OF *] LANQUETOT. See Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 333.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 16,9\tab 1 MILL, 3s 3d. The abbreviation above }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 iii solid' }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 is [}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 tri}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 u}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 [}{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 m}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ] (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 17\tab WILLIAM OF WARENNE.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  A prominent magnate, created Earl of Surrey by William II; died 1088 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 17,1\tab HIS }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 DELIVERER. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 liberator }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 handed over land on the king's behalf, and freed it from other claims (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 17,2\tab TILBROOK.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  Now in Huntingdonshire (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab SO FAR OF THE KING'S JURISDICTION THAT.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
 The cumbersome phrase is unusual. Very many Freemen and others in Domesday are said to have had the right, before 1066, to 'withdraw', either without qualification, sometimes equated with }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 alodium}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 'freehold', or 'to another lord'. Here, a
s commonly in Bedfordshire, they are not said to have been subject to any lord. Normally, the commissioners, or their clerk, transcribed the phrase without comment; the wording suggests that on this occasion they asked 'the men of the hundred' to explain 
its meaning (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab HUGH [* OF *] BEAUCHAMP.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  See 1,1a Tallboys note (JRM).}{\insrsid14182768 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab \tab S}{\insrsid14182768 ee also 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 1,1a Tallboys note, and 23,7 Ware note (JRM).}{\insrsid14182768 
\par \tab \tab See also 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 17,3\tab KIMBOLTON. Formerly a hundred, in 1086 the centre of William of Warenne's Honour,}{\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 in Huntingdonshire, jutting into Bedfordshire between Tilbrook and Easton. "Hanefelde}{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 " }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 evidently lay close to the shire boundary in this area (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab DEFENCE OBLIGATIONS. }{\i\f44\insrsid14182768 Warr\'e2}{\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\insrsid14182768  }{\insrsid14182768 from }{\i\insrsid14182768 werian }{\insrsid14182768 ('defend', 'guard', 'be wary 
of'); probably including both the king's }{\i\insrsid14182768 geld }{\insrsid14182768 and liability for military service. Not to be confused with }{\i\insrsid14182768 Waras}{\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\insrsid14182768  }{\insrsid14182768 
Ware in Hertfordshire (HRT 26,1), probably a plural of }{\i\insrsid14182768 waer}{\insrsid14182768  ('weir'); see }{\i\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Hertfordshire}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 206 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 17,4\tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. Of Ware, see 1,1a Tallboys note, and 23,7 Ware note (JRM).
\par \tab \tab Eskil was a substantial pre-Conquest landowner in Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire, identified by Round, }{\i\insrsid14182768 VCH Hertfordshire}{\insrsid14182768 , pp. 276, 284; Clarke, }{\i\insrsid14182768 English Nobility}{\insrsid14182768 
, pp. 251-52; and Abels, 'Introduction', }{\i\insrsid14182768 Alecto Bedfordshire}{\insrsid14182768 , pp. 35-36. See also 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab COLMWORTH. See 23,38 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab HUGH OF BEAUCHAMP. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab SHERIFFDOM. Since in 1086 each shire had its sheriff (}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 vicecomes}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ),}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 but only two had an earl (}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 comes}{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 ),}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Domesday often uses }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 vicecomitatus }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 comitatus }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ('county') (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 17,5\tab COMMENDED HIM. An unusually explicit definition of }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 commendatio}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ;}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 see 23,17. 57,20 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 17,7\tab GODRIC, THE SHERIFF'S MAN.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  Possibly a manuscript error for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 homo Godrici vicecomitis }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ('a man of Godric the sheriff); see 23,25 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 

\par }{\insrsid14182768 18,1\tab ALSTAN OF BOSCOMBE. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Alstan was William's predecessor in other counties. Boscombe is in Wiltshire (JRM). See also 18,2 Alstan note}{\insrsid14182768  (JP)}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 .}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 18,2\tab ALSTAN [* OF BOSCOMBE]. Predecessor of William of Eu who acquired almost all of Alstan's holdings as well as those of his men in eight counties: see Clarke, }{\i\insrsid14182768 English Nobility}{\insrsid14182768 
, pp. 229-31, to whose list should be added "Slacham" (HAM 1,32), Boxbury (HRT 28,3), Eckweek (SOM 19,61), and possibly
 [Stourton] Caundle (DOR 26,70) and Barton (SOM 21,92). Boxbury was evidently omitted by accident; but the Alstan of "Slacham" is identified by the intermediate ownership of Ralph of Lim\'e9
sy, while he of Eckweek is named in Exon. Eckweek devolved upon the C
ount of Mortain so it is possible that the two other holdings he acquired from an Alstan in Dorset and Somerset, both of which lay in the same general area as his other holdings in those counties, came from the same man (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 18,3\tab ALSTAN [* OF BOSCOMBE *]. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See 18,2 Alstan note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 18,4\tab ALSTAN OF BOSCOMBE. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See 18,2 Alstan note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 18,5\tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 18,6\tab ALSTAN OF BOSCOMBE. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See 18,2 Alstan note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 18,7\tab ALSTAN [* OF BOSCOMBE *]. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See 18,2 Alstan note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 19,1\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\insrsid14182768 
<OF WADDESDON>. Although his lands devolved upon eight or nine tenants-in-chief, they can be reconstructed from his distinctive description as a thane of Queen Edith, some of whose manors devolved upon the Count of Mortain, Robert d'Oi
lly, Miles Crispin, Hugh of Bolbec and Osbern son of Richard. Other links between the Brictrics on these fiefs are provided by holdings by more than one of them in the vills of Beachendon, Chesham, Littlecote, Marston and Wingrave, links which identify Br
i
ctric as a predecessor of Odo of Bayeux, Turstin Mantle and William son of Ansculf in Buckinghamshire. The only other Brictric in that county was at Helsthorpe (BUK 43,4), a couple of miles from Wingrave and Horton, almost certainly the same man since he 
w
as an overlord and no other Brictric will fit this description. In Bedfordshire, too, the only unidentified Brictric was probably Brictric of Waddesdon since he was also a lord of men and his holding at Milton Ernest (32,2) was close to the two of Brictri
c of Waddesdon at Clapham and Thurleigh. Brictric was the greatest landowner in Buckinghamshire before the Conquest, with large manors at Waddesdon and Marsworth and holdings valued at almost \'a390 out of a total of a little over \'a3
100 for all counties, his 'men' having a further \'a322 between them, \'a319 of this in Buckinghamshire. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid14182768 English Nobility}{\insrsid14182768 
, pp. 262-64, whose list does not include one Chesham holding, or Kimble, Stewkely and Whaddon (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 19,3\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\insrsid14182768 <OF WADDESDON>. See 19,1 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 20\tab ARNULF OF HESDIN. See 15,2 Arnulf note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 20,1\tab WULFWARD. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Wulfward White, a magnate of King Edward's, Arnulf's predecessor in several other counties (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab [SON OF?] "LEUET". The Domesday form is }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Leuet}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 perhaps [Old English] }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Leofede}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ; see}{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\insrsid14182768 von Feilitzen }{\i\insrsid14182768 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid14182768 , p. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 322, under }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Luuede}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 . Or }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Leuid}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  quedam femina }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (ESS 30,43); see }{\insrsid14182768 von Feilitzen }{\i\insrsid14182768 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
, p. 312, [under }{\i\f37\cf1\insrsid14182768 Leofgy\'f0}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ]. Or a misspelling of }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Leuiet }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (Leofgeat) (JRM).}{\insrsid14182768 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab \tab In the Phillimore printed edition }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Leuet }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
is given as Leofed, but in view of the uncertainty over this name it has been decided for the present edition to keep to the Domesday form. The Alecto edition has 'Wulfweard White', but emendation of }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 leuet}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
 to }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 uuit}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , which with }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 albus}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  are the Domesday forms of Wulfward's byname (see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
, p. 319), seems rather far-fetched, though possible.}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 20,2\tab EDWARD WHITE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Uuit }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 is a frequent byname, used by a number of different unrelated people. But since Ed
ward held from Arnulf, he may have been a relative of Wulfward (20,1); if so, his is a rare instance of an Old English family name. It is however possible that the interlinear correction was added against the wrong name, intended for Wulfward (JRM).}{
\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 21,1\tab WULFMER OF EATON [SOCON]. See 21,10 Wulfmer note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 21,5\tab WULFMER OF EATON [SOCON]. See 21,10 Wulfmer note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 21,6\tab WULFMER OF EATON [SOCON]. See 21,10 Wulfmer note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab HUGH BEAUCHAMP. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH [* TALLBOYS *]. Sheriff of Bedfor
dshire and a major landowner in this and neighbouring counties, succeeding to the estates of the English magnate, Eskil of Ware, to which he added substantially by plundering the estates of minor English landowners. He was dead by 1086, succeeded as sheri
f
f and on many of his estates by Hugh de Beauchamp, who probably married his daughter and heiress Azelina. Ralph's misdeeds as sheriff are writ large in the Bedfordshire text. His role as sheriff identify him as the Ralph here and in 57,13 (compare 57,3vi)
: see 23,7 Ralph note; and see also Abels, 'Introduction to the Bedfordshire Domesday', }{\i\insrsid14182768 Bedfordshire Domesday}{\insrsid14182768 
, pp. 43-44; Abels, 'Sheriffs, Lord-seeking and the Norman Settlement in the South-East Midlands', pp. 19-50 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 21,9\tab WULFMER OF EATON [SOCON]. See 21,10 Wulfmer note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 21,10\tab WULFMER [* OF EATON SOCON *]. A wealthy thane whose lands in Bedfordshire and Cambridgeshire formed the basis of the later barony of Eaton Socon; identified by Round, }{\i\insrsid14182768 VCH Bedfordshire}{\insrsid14182768 
 p. 201; Abels, Introduction', }{\i\insrsid14182768 Bedfordshire Domesday}{\insrsid14182768 , pp. 36-38; Clarke, }{\i\insrsid14182768 English Nobility}{\insrsid14182768 , pp. 364-66 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab HUGH OF BEAUCHAMP. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 21,11\tab "DOMNIC". This is the only occurrence of this form of the name in Domesday Book (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 21,12\tab NORTHMANN. See 23,52 Northmann note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 21,13\tab NORTHMANN. See 23,52 Northmann note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab AND THE 3 ABOVE.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  Those of 21,12 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LISOIS' [* OF MOUTIERS *]. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Of Moutiers. His courage and initiative forced the passage of the Aire in William's campaign against York in 1069: Orderic Vitalis, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Ecclesiastical History}{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 , iv. pp. 230-31 (JRM).}{\insrsid14182768 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab \tab }{\insrsid14182768 Probably from Moutiers-Hubert (Calvados: arrondissement Lisieux); Tengvik, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Old}{\insrsid14182768  }{\i\insrsid14182768 English}{\insrsid14182768  }{\i\insrsid14182768 Bynames}{
\insrsid14182768 , p. 102). The name Lisois occurs ten times in Domesday Book, in each case as that of the predecessor of Eudo the steward, so
 there is little doubt that all refer to the same individual. In the Cambridgeshire entry (CAM 25,9) he is named 'Lisois of Moutiers', and in NFK 66,100 is stated to be the predecessor of Eudo. His ten appearances are to give title to Eudo's tenure of tho
se estates. As an intermediate landholder, }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Lisois does not appear in }{\insrsid14182768 Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768  (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 21,14\tab PIROT}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  [* PICOT OF CAMBRIDGE *]}{\insrsid14182768 . See CAM 25,1 Pirot note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab WULFMER OF EATON [SOCON]. See 21,10 Wulfmer note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 21,15\tab PIROT}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  [* PICOT OF CAMBRIDGE *]}{\insrsid14182768 . See CAM 25,1 Pirot note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab WULFMER OF EATON [SOCON]. See 21,10 Wulfmer note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 21,17\tab WULFMER OF EATON [SOCON]. See 21,10 Wulfmer note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 22,1\tab TILSWORTH. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Pileworde}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ; it}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 mistakes Old English 'thorn' (Th)
 for P; the return which Domesday here transcribed was therefore written by a clerk familiar with Old English letters (JRM). All later forms of the name cited in }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
, p. 133, have an initial }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Th}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 -.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab 
AMBROSE <OF TILSWORTH>. The name Ambrose occurs on seven holdings in Domesday Book, each time as a tenant of William Peverel so there can be little doubt that all seven occurrences refer to the same man. He was succeeded by two sisters, perhaps his daught
ers: Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 150 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 22,2\tab MALET.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  Normally a byname. The personal name was perhaps omitted (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab COUNTESS [GYTHA] GODA. Gytha was the w}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 idow of Earl Ralph of Hereford, William Peverel's predecessor elsewhere; different from her na
mesake, Goda, wife of Earl Godwin and mother of King Harold (JRM). See NTT 10,5 Gytha note.}{\insrsid14182768 
\par \tab \tab Gytha was the wife of Earl Ralph of Hereford and mother of another Earl Harold, easily confused with Gytha, wife of Earl Godwin and mother of Earl Harold Godwinso
n. She may have been the daughter of Osgod "Clapa" and widow of Tovi the proud: Williams, 'The king's nephew', pp. 327-43. She was a major predecessor of William Peverel in Buckinghamshire which enables her to be identified as the Gytha who preceded him i
n
 his Northamptonshire manors. The links between Gytha and Peverel make it probable that the Countess Goda in this entry and in NTT S5 and NTT 10,5 are scribal errors for Countess Gytha, as also at NTT 23,1: see NTT 10,5 Gytha note and Williams, 'The king'
s
 nephew', p. 333 note 36. It also likely that the Goda who held two royal manors in Rutland was Countess Gytha: see RUT 1,5 Countess note. In all these cases, the particular reasons for the identifications are also supported by the fact that Countess Goda
 is not known to have held land anywhere north Twyford in Buckinghamshire (JP).
\par \tab \tab When the two countesses are accounted for, there are only four other occurrences of the name Gytha in Domesday Book, any of which could refer to Countess Gytha of Hereford tho
ugh only those at Tilton in Leicestershire and Walton in Warwickshire lay within the territory in which she and her family held land. Tilton lay just 10 miles from her husband's manor of Stockerston (LEC 10,15) and a cluster of his other holdings, and Wal
t
on a similar distance from her son's manor of Burton Dassett (WAR 38,2), itself a few miles from his father's manor at Mollington (NTH 35,26); in view of the rarity of the name, it is perhaps more likely than not that both properties had been held by Coun
tess Gytha. The remaining holdings of a Gytha, in Lincolnshire (LIN 53,6) and Yorkshire (5E35-36), are perhaps more likely to have belonged to other individuals given that her family had no known associations with either county. See also Clarke, }{
\i\insrsid14182768 English Nobility}{\insrsid14182768 , pp. 225-26, whose list omits dependencies and BDF 22,2. LEC 2,7. NTH 35,22. NTT 10,5. 23,1. RUT 1,5-6 and WAR 16,10 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23\tab HUGH OF BEAUCHAMP. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,1\tab KEYSOE. Two other portions are entered in the Huntingdonshire folios: 3 vir
gates of land held under William of Warenne (HUN 13,2) and 1 virgate held by Alwin, a king's thane, both in 1066 and 1086 (HUN 29,2). Of this latter piece of land Domesday says: 'It lies in Bedfordshire, but it pays tax in Huntingdonshire'. Domesday repor
ts a total of 5 hides and 1 virgate of Keysoe in Bedfordshire; it may be that the record omitted a statement that William of Warenne's 3 virgates also 'lay in Bedford\-
shire'. It is probable that the Huntingdonshire taxable hide lay in the north of the manor, adjoining Pertenhall (HUN D16) (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,2\tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,3\tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 23,5\tab "CHAINHALLE". }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 VCH Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , i. p. 237, suggests Channel's End (TL1157), apparently on the}{\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
similarity of the modern name, but queries it because Channel's End is in Barford Hundred; and is followed by the }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , without the query. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{
\cf1\insrsid14182768  (map) gives it as an alternative name for Ravensden, but omits it from its text. Presumably the editors (Mawer and Stenton, in 1926) had some evidence t
o support this identification; but the relevant records of the English Place-Name Society were lost or destroyed during the war. Its position in the text places it in 'Buckelowe' Hundred, which Ravensden adjoins (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,6\tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,7\tab GOLDINGTON [HIGHFIELDS].}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  It is 2 \'bd miles north-west of Goldington, separated from it}{\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 by Putnoe (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH TALLBOYS HAD ... IN EXCHANGE FOR WARE. Presumably exchanged with Hugh of Grandmesnil, who held Ware (HRT 26,1), at 24 hides,}{\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
in 1086. Ralph is named as the predecessor of Hugh of Beauchamp, explic
itly in 17,2 (Tilbrook, now in Huntingdonshire), implicitly at Little Staughton (17,4-5) and at Stotfold (23,12. 55,9). Eskil of Ware was the predecessor of both [Hughs] (explicitly so called in 17,4) in many holdings in Hertfordshire and Bedfordshire (JR
M
) [More precisely, the full name, Eskil of Ware, occurs only in HRT 26,1 in the entry for Ware itself; but a plain Eskil occurs frequently as the predecessor of Hugh of Beauchamp here (17,4. 23,1-3; 5-6;11-13;22;24;27;33;42;44;52). No Eskil precedes Hugh 
of Beauchamp in Hertfordshire nor Hugh of Grandmesnil in Bedfordshire.]}{\insrsid14182768 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab \tab The notices of Ralph's heirs, his daughter, his widow, his niece's husband Ranulf, and Hugh of Beauchamp indicate that the original holdings of Ralph and of Eskil before him, included
 a strategic concentration in the region where the River Lea is crossed by the north road and is joined by the River Stort, another straddling the north road beyond its junction with the Icknield Way at Baldock, and a third in the Dunstable area, where th
e
 Icknield Way crosses Watling Street. The lands exchanged for Ware lie on both banks of the Ouse east of Bedford. Together, they were assessed at 22 hides and 3 virgates, nearly as much as Ware, but their combined value is only about half the value of War
e. See 1,1a Tallboys, note (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,11\tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,12\tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,13\tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 23,15\tab AKI. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Achi}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 here and in 23,38, may be a mistake for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Aschil}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 but since Hugh held much land that had not been Eskil's, Aki may be a separate person (JRM).
\par \tab \tab However, see 23,38 Eskil note (JP).
\par \tab \tab This Domesday form is listed among those for Old Danish }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Aki}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  in von Feilitzen, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
, p. 142. The Alecto edition has Aki.}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 23,16\tab AS MUCH WHEN ACQUIRED. That is, by Hugh (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab IN EXCHANGE FOR WARE. See 23,7 Ware note.}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,17\tab COMMENDED. See 17,5 commended note and 57,20 commended note (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,22\tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab THERE WAS 1 FREEMAN. The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 fuerunt}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 fuit }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ('were' for 'was'); see 23,53 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,24\tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 23,27\tab BLETSOE. Here and in 53,8 in 'Buckelowe' Hundred. Geographically, in 1086, Bletsoe should have}{\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 been in 'Willey' Hundred, Radwell [24,22. 53,12
] in 'Buckelowe' Hundred, with the Ouse as hundred boundary. The anomaly}{\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 may be the result of a transfer, see 1,5 hundred note (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab OSBERT [OSBERN] OF BROUAY. The byname only occurs twice in Domesday (23,27;31). In both instances the form is the same: }{\i\insrsid14182768 de broilg}{\insrsid14182768 . In the Phillimore printed edition JRM followed Tengvik, }{
\i\insrsid14182768 Old English Bynames}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 76, in identifying this as Breuil, a common place-name of which there are several examples in the French d\'e9partement of Calvados. The derivation of this name is Old French }{
\i\insrsid14182768 breuil}{\insrsid14182768 , Old Provencal }{\i\insrsid14182768 brolh}{\insrsid14182768  ('a small wood surrounded by a wall or hedge'), a word of Celtic (Gaulish) origin, Latinized as }{\i\insrsid14182768 brogilus}{\insrsid14182768 / }{
\i\insrsid14182768 brogilum}{\insrsid14182768  with a number of different forms showing vowel changes under Frankish and French influence; see Dauzat and Rostaing, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Dictionnaire des Noms de Lieux en France}{\insrsid14182768 , under}{
\i\insrsid14182768  Breil}{\insrsid14182768 . None of the early French forms of the various places called (Le) Breuil cited in Dauzat and Rostaing, shows a -}{\i\insrsid14182768 g}{\insrsid14182768 
-. For the development, see the various places called Mareuil (from }{\i\insrsid14182768 marogilum}{\insrsid14182768 ) cited in Dauzat and Rostaing under Mareau-aux-Bois.
\par \tab \tab Round in }{\i\insrsid14182768 VCH Bedfordshire}{\insrsid14182768 , i. p. 201, pointed out that several of Hugh of Beauchamp's subtenants hailed from the same French canton, Tilly-sur-Seulles (also in Calvados but not containing any place call
ed (Le) Breuil), and that Osbert could have come from Brouay in the same canton. This identification was supported by Loyd, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Some Anglo-Norman Families}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 20, and by Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People
}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 318. She pointed out that the next known holder of Osbert's lands was Robert }{\i\insrsid14182768 de Broi}{\insrsid14182768 
, perhaps a grandson. The Domesday form of his byname rules out derivation from any place called Breuil and points towards Brouay. Early forms of this place are }{\i\insrsid14182768 Bro\'e9}{\insrsid14182768  (1177) and the Latinization }{
\i\insrsid14182768 Broeium}{\insrsid14182768  (1251); see Dauzat and Rostaing, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Dictionnaire des Noms de Lieux en France}{\insrsid14182768 , under Brouay. Loyd thought the Domesday form (}{\i\insrsid14182768 de broilg}{
\insrsid14182768 ) corrupt, but the derivation is from a Celtic (Gaulish) personal name }{\i\insrsid14182768 Brogos}{\insrsid14182768  or from }{\i\insrsid14182768 broga}{\insrsid14182768  ('a boundary', 'a field') with the suffix }{\i\insrsid14182768 
-acum}{\insrsid14182768 . In the Domesday form, the vowel has differentiated, but the -}{\i\insrsid14182768 g}{\insrsid14182768 - has survived.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab \tab It is likely that the Domesday form }{\i\insrsid14182768 Osb}{\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\insrsid14182768 er}{\insrsid14182768 ]}{\i\insrsid14182768 t}{\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\insrsid14182768 us}{\insrsid14182768 
] here is a scribal confusion with the form }{\i\insrsid14182768 Osbernus}{\insrsid14182768  ('Osbern'), as Osbern of Brouay in 23,31 must be the same person, and it is probable that the Osbern of 53,8;15 is from Brouay (Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 
Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 318): 53,8 is Bletsoe.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,30\tab WARNER <OF TURVEY>. Warner is not a common name in Domesda
y Book, occurring less than two dozen times in all, and only once in the south Midlands. It is unlikely that the tenant of Turvey was related to any other Warner, all of them distant and without tenurial associations (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,31\tab OSBERN OF BROUAY. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 The manuscript has Osbert for Osbern, see 23,27 Osbern note, 44,2 Osbern note and 46,1 Osbern note. (JRM)}{\insrsid14182768 .
\par \tab \tab See also 53,8 Osbern note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,33\tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 23,36\tab 3 HIDES. The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 car'}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 underlined for deletion, emended to }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 hid}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 [}{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 as}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ] (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,38\tab AKI [* ESKIL OF WARE *]. The royal thane Aki who preceded Hugh de Beauchamp at Colmworth is named Eskil in two of Colmworth's dependencies (17,4. 23,24). Since Eskil
 was demonstrably Hugh's predecessor (after Ralph Tallboys) in Bedfordshire, Aki is evidently a scribal error here. That being the case, it is probably also an error at Haynes (23,15) which lies within five miles of several of the manors Hugh acquired fro
m Eskil: Round, }{\i\insrsid14182768 VCH Bedfordshire}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 200 note 2. See also 17,4 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,41\tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab IN EXCHANGE FOR WARE. See 23,7 Ware note.}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 23,42\tab IN EXCHANGE FOR WARE. See 23,7 Ware note.}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 23,43\tab IN EXCHANGE FOR WARE. See 23,7 Ware note.}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,44\tab MORDWING. This is the only occurrence of this name in Domesday Book (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,47\tab LEODMER <OF BYGRAVE>. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,48\tab AELMER OF HOO. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Hoo is in Wootton (49,2), which Aelmer held; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 86 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,52\tab NORMAN [* NORTHMANN *]. Probably the same man as he of 21,12-13 since the vills were adjacent and these three are the only occurrences of a Norman or Northmann in the county (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 23,7 Ware note.
\par \tab \tab See also 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 23,53\tab HELD. The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 tenuit}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 probably an error for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 tenet }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ('}{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 holds'), as in 23,22 above (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 23,55\tab LIBORET. This is the only occurrence of this form of the name in Domesday Book (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab IN EXCHANGE FOR WARE. See 23,7 Ware note.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 24,2\tab FUGLO.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Suglo}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 in error; see }{\insrsid14182768 von Feilitzen }{\i\insrsid14182768 
Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid14182768 , p.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  256. The text was evidently transcribing a return which used small-letter hooked }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 s}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , easily confused with }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 f}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 16,1 Alric note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 24,5\tab OATS FROM THE WOODLAND. Presumably from clearings in the woodland (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 24,6\tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 16,1 Alric note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 24,7\tab STEPHEN [* SON OF ERHARD *]. See Keats-Rohan, D}{\i\insrsid14182768 omesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 423, under Stefan Stirman. Stephen the steersman is identified as Stephen son Erhard by Ordericus Vitalis, }{
\i\insrsid14182768 Ecclesiastical History}{\insrsid14182768 , vi. p. 296) and so-named in Domesday Berkshire (BRK 64) (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 16,1 Alric note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 24,9\tab GODWIN SON OF LEOFWIN. See 8,6 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab THEY COULD ALL.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  Evidently some names have been omitted, probably of Freemen (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 24,11\tab BROOM. The marginal addition is placed against the wrong hundred (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 24,13\tab 'WESTCOTTS'.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  By Wilshamstead, formerly balancing Eastcotts, the parish centred on Cotton End, (TL0845); see }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , pp. 86, 91 (JRM).}
{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab PLOUGH IRON. See 8,1 iron note (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 24,14\tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 24,15\tab 3 SMALLHOLDERS. These and the slaves are here entered after resources (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab AELFRIC [* SMALL *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 24,17\tab HOLD ... FROM. The manuscript omits }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 de }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 and repeats }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 ten}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 et}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ] (JRM).}{
\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 24,18\tab PIROT [* PICOT OF CAMBRIDGE *]. See CAM 25,1 Pirot note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab SOMEONE HAS. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Quidam}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 probably for a word or name illegible in the return transcribed (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab YOUNG LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. See 8,6 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab HIS WIFE'S }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 MARRIAGE PORTION. Domesday distinguishes }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 maritagium}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 provided by the bride's father, from }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 dos}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 the dowry provided by the husband; see also 55,5 marriage note (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 24,19\tab MILTO
N [ERNEST]. With this entry, Milton Ernest makes 10 hides, as does Milton Bryan in 'Manshead' Hundred. Milton Ernest is in 'Stodden' Hundred; but it is possible that a portion of its lands lay across the Ouse, in 'Willey' Hundred, and that the hundred hea
ding is inserted after, instead of before, the entry, as occasionally in other counties (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab \'bd VILLAGERS' PLOUGH [POSSIBLE]. The manuscript probably omitted }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 pot}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 est}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  fieri }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
after }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 vill' }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 24,20\tab GOLDRUN. S}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ee }{\insrsid14182768 von Feilitzen }{\i\insrsid14182768 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid14182768 
, p. 273; this is the only occurrence of this form of the name in Domesday Book (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LEOFNOTH [* SON OF OSMUND *]. Although Leofnoth is a common name, there is a pronounced pattern to its distribution in the south Midlands. All the estates 
of Walter of Flanders in Northamptonshire (NTH 39,1-18) were acquired from Leofnoth, stated in the text to be the same individual. Walter also inherited the bulk of his estates in Bedfordshire (32,1;3-9) from Leofnoth, described as a royal thane in most e
n
tries and evidently the same individual as his Northamptonshire predecessor. The royal thane Leofnoth also held one manor in Buckinghamshire (BUK 43,1). The only other Leofnoth in the county (BUK 12,38) was also a lord of men and possibly the same individ
u
al. This Leofnoth was named son of Osmund, the only appearance of this name in Domesday Book. His holding at Wavendon lay between the holdings of Walter's predecessor in Bedfordshire and Northamptonshire. Wavendon was also adjacent to the only other two e
s
tates in Bedfordshire (33,1-2) held by a royal thane named Leofnoth. They were acquired by another Flemish tenant-in-chief, Walter brother of Sihere, probably the nephew of Walter of Flanders, one of whose holdings (32,15) strongly implies that the two Wa
lters had acquired their estates from the same Leofnoth, further strengthening his identification with the son of Osmund (JP).
\par \tab \tab One other estate in Bedfordshire was held by a Leofnoth who was a lord of men, at Carlton (24,20), surrounded by the holdings of
 the son of Osmund and so probably his, too. Finally, there were half-a-dozen other estates held by a Leofnoth in Northamptonshire which may have been his. These, unfortunately, do not give the lordship detail which would aid identification; but the holdi
n
g at Grimsbury (NTH 48,1) had been held 'with full jurisdiction' and had devolved upon another of the Flemish tenants-in-chief, Gunfrid of Chocques; and those at Litchborough and Croughton (NTH 13,1. 18,64) were held freely and adjacent to other holdings 
of the son of Osmund. One of these devolved upon the Count of Mortain, who had acquired another holding from Leofnoth (NTH 18,40). That holding, though, was somewhat apart from the others and modestly endowed. Peter Clarke (}{\i\insrsid14182768 
English Nobility}{\insrsid14182768 , pp. 319-20), ad
ds Berkswell (NTH 19,2) to this list but, curiously, not the other holdings of Leofnoth acquired by the Count of Meulan (NTH 19,1;3. WAR 16,24;27;31) which have several features which link them. Although the links are not as convincing as those discussed 
above, this Leofnoth might well be the son of Osmund: he held freely; some of the properties were modestly substantial; two of them were reasonably close to those of the son of Osmund; and no other Leofnoths held in Warwickshire or nearby (JP).
\par \tab \tab Like many others of his condition, Leofnoth son of Osmund may have been allowed to survive on a fragment of his former estate (NTH 39,13), as a tenant of Walter of Flanders at Plumpton (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 24,24\tab PIROT [* PICOT OF CAMBRIDGE *]. See CAM 25,1 Pirot note.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 24,25\tab FULCHER OF PARIS. See also 24,26 Fulcher note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. See 8,6 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 24,26\tab FULCHER [* OF PARIS *]. Almost certainly the Fulcher of Paris who held from Nigel in the neighbouring vill of Stratton. All five holdings of Fulche
r (16,7. 24,25-26. 53,17-18) in the county lay in these two vills. See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 201}{\insrsid4789874  (JP)}{\insrsid14182768 .}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 25,1\tab RALPH PASSWATER. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 French }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 passe I'eau}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 hence English Paslow, Parslow, etc.; see Tengvik, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Old English Bynames }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 386 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 25,2\tab 
WILLIAM SON OF [RAINWARD] REGINALD. 'There is little doubt' according to William Farrer that the William son of Reginald recorded here is a scribal error for William son of Rainward, who held at Chawston (25,7) since the two estates were held from the sam
e tenant-in-chief and the same family held in both vills at a later date: Farrer, 'The Honour of Old Warden', pp. 16-20. This William does not occur elsewhere in Domesday Book though Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 
, p. 488, identifies the William of Steppingley with another William son of Reginald, a tenant of William of Warenne in Sussex and Suffolk (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 25,3\tab HUGH [* OF BEAUCHAMP *]. See 23,7 Ralph note and 25,3 Hugh note; and see also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 260 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 25,5\tab WALTER [* THE MONK *]. Far
rer identifies the Walter of Wymington and Hinwick (25,5-6) as Walter the monk: Farrer, 'The Honour of Old Warden', pp. 22-25. Walter the monk held from Azelina Tallboys Old Warden (55,8), to which Keats-Rohan adds Chicksands (55,12), as well as Sawtry in
 Huntingdonshire from Eustace the sheriff (HUN 19,1) which is identified in this edition as held by Walter of Beauvais: }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 457; HUN 19,1 Sawtry note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 25,6\tab WALTER [* THE MONK *]. See 25,5 Walter note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 25,7\tab WILLIAM SON OF RAINWARD. See 25,2 William note.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab EUDO THE STEWARD. See 28,1 Eudo note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab HUGH OF BEAUCHAMP. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab EUDO THE STEWARD. See 28,1 Eudo note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 25,11\tab 2 FRENCHMEN.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Franc'}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 probably for the more usual }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 francigenae}{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 rather than 'freemen' (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 25,12\tab HUGH [* OF BEAUCHAMP *]. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab "LEMAR". In the printed Phillimore edition this name was rendered Leofmer. As von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 309, was unsure as to whether the Domesday form }
{\i\insrsid14182768 Lemar'}{\insrsid14182768  represented Old English }{\i\insrsid14182768 Leofm\'e6r }{\insrsid14182768 or Old English }{\i\insrsid14182768 Leodm\'e6r}{\insrsid14182768 
, and left his headword as Lemar, it has been thought safest for the present edition to keep to the Domesday form. The Alecto edition has Lemar.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 25,14\tab YOUNG LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. See 8,6 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab A THANE OF THE KING'S. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 The manuscript probably omitted }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 E}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 dwardi}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 after }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 regis }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 26,1\tab STUDHAM. Granted to St Albans (Kemble, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Codex Diplomaticus}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , no. 945 [= Sawyer }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Anglo-Saxon Charters}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , no.}{\cf1\insrsid14903298  }
{\cf1\insrsid14182768 1235]) shortly before 1066 by Oswulf and his}{\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 wife, Aethelida. The named witnesses are Bishop Wulfwy, Bondi the constable, Burgred and his son Edwin, Godric }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 tribunus}{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Alstan the sheriff and Leofwin of Caddington (12,1 Caddington note). Aethel
ida had inherited Studham from her first husband Wulfsi. She and Oswald retained its use for their lives, and the abbot provided timber to build a church in Studham 'in honour of our Lord Jesus Christ and St Alban'. St Albans did not acquire the land, pre
sumably because Oswulf lived until the Conquest, and the medieval church was dedicated to the Virgin (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab BALDRIC <OF STUDHAM>. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab OSWULF SON OF FRANI. See 26,2 Oswulf note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 26,2\tab OSWULF [* SON OF FRANI *]. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
Oswulf son of Frani was Robert's predecessor in all his estates in Bedfordshire (BDF 26) and Hertfordshire (HRT 21); an Oswulf son of Frani, a royal thane, preceded him in BUK 18,2, and Oswulf, a royal thane, in BUK 18,3. It is thus likely that his other 
p
redecessors named Oswulf in Buckinghamshire, in Leicestershire and Northamptonshire are the same individual, particularly as there are only six other unidentified Oswulfs in these five counties. Of these six, moreover, two were predecessors of the Count o
f
 Mortain who had succeeded the son of Frani on another estate, and two others were in vills adjacent to the holdings of the son of Frani. Only the two manors acquired by Miles Crispin (BUK 23,24-25) appear to have no links to the holdings of the son of Fr
ani. Frani himself might be Frani of Rockingham (Northamptonshire); see NTH 5,1 Langton note. See also Clarke, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 English Nobility}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , pp. 331-32 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 26,3\tab OSWULF [* SON OF FRANI *]. See 26,2 Oswulf note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 27,1\tab EDLESBOROUGH. For another part, held in 1066 by
 Ulf, a thane of King Edward, and in 1086 by Gilbert of Ghent, see BUK 22,1. The two thirds of the manor in Buckinghamshire presumably included the village; the Bedfordshire portion would therefore be in the south-east of the modern parish. The village is
 now all in Buckinghamshire (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab 100s 10[d].}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  The manuscript probably omits }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 den}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 arii}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ],}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
but might intend 110 shillings (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ULF [* FENMAN *]. Ulf was the predecessor of Gilbert of Ghent in seven counties: see NTT 17,1 Ulf note and Clarke, }{\i\insrsid14182768 English Nobility}{\insrsid14182768 , pp. 351-53}{\insrsid4789874  (JP)}{\insrsid14182768 .}{
\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 28,1\tab 
EUDO [* THE STEWARD *]. Steward to the Conqueror and two of his sons and a major tenant-in-chief, with land in ten counties. The name Eudo was borne by few unidentified individuals, none closer than Quainton in Buckinghamshire (BU
K 49,1) so there is little reason to doubt that this Eudo is the steward, a large group of his holdings lying immediately to the east and south-east of Thurleigh. The nature of his claim is unclear as neither he nor his predecessor in the county, Wulfmer 
of Eaton Socon, appear to have had an interest in Thurleigh. See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 194 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 29,1\tab HUGH OF GRANDMESNIL. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 30\tab ROBERT [SON OF] FAFITON.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  So HUN 25,1 (JRM). See CAM 38 Robert note.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 30,1\tab ALWIN HORN.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Horim}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 in error; see MDX 4,11 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 31,1\tab GLEU. The name derives from Old English }{\i\f44\insrsid14182768 gl\'e7aw}{\insrsid14182768  or Old Breton }{\i\insrsid14182768 Gleu}{\insrsid14182768 : von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid14182768 
Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 262 note 1, the latter being more probable in view of Gleu's tenure from Alfred of Lincoln, an important Breton tenant-in-chief: Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{
\insrsid14182768 , pp. 141-42. The name occurs six times in Domesday Book, five times as a tenant of Alfred of Lincoln, and once as a 'man' of Godfrey of Cambrai. Despite this descriptio
n, there is little doubt that this is the same individual as Alfred's tenant since Gleu holds in the same vill from both tenants-in-chief. All six references can be taken to refer to one individual. See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 
Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 216 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 32,1\tab LEOFNOTH [* SON OF OSMUND *]. See 24,20 Leofnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 32,2\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\insrsid14182768 <OF WADDESDON>. See 19,1 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 32,3\tab HUGH [* OF FLANDERS *]. Probably a brother of Walter of Flanders and said to be the ancestor of the La Lega family: Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 270 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LEOFNOTH [* SON OF OSMUND *]. See 24,20 Leofnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 32,4\tab LEOFNOTH [* SON OF OSMUND *]. See 24,20 Leofnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 32,5\tab PODINGTON. Another portion lay in Northamptonshire, as part of the manor of Higham Ferrers held by William Peverel (NTH 35,1)}{\insrsid14182768 . }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
The larger part of Podington was in Bedfordshire, and the whole parish now is. Rushden (3,17. 22,2) and Farndish (42,1) were also shared with Northamptonshire (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab HUGH [* OF FLANDERS *]. See 32,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LEOFNOTH [* SON OF OSMUND *]. See 24,20 Leofnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 32,6\tab 5 PLOUGHS ... 3 PLOUGHS ... 1 PLOUGH. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 'Another plough possible' omitted (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LEOFNOTH [* SON OF OSMUND *]. See 24,20 Leofnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 32,8\tab HUGH [* OF FLANDERS *]. See 32,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LEOFNOTH [* SON OF OSMUND *]. See 24,20 Leofnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 32,9\tab LEOFNOTH [* SON OF OSMUND *]. See 24,20 Leofnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 32,10\tab LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. See 8,6 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab A THANE. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Steignus }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Teignus}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 32,12\tab HUGH [* OF FLANDERS *]. See 32,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. See 8,6 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 32,13\tab LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. See 8,6 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 32,14\tab \'bd HIDE OF WOODLAND. Woodland is occasionally measured by the hide elsewhere, for example ESS 24,1-2; see SUS \{Introduction: The Hide\}. The other half [hide] of the Southill woodland is entered at 39,3 (JRM).}{
\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. See 8,6 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 32,15\tab LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. See 8,6 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab [* WALTER BROTHER OF *] SIHERE. See 24,20 Leofnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 32,16\tab HUGH [* OF FLANDERS *]. See 32,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 33,1\tab LEOFNOTH [* SON OF OSMUND *]. See 24,20 Leofnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 33,2\tab HUGH [* OF FLANDERS *]. See 32,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LEOFNOTH [* SON OF OSMUND *]. See 24,20 Leofnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 34\tab HUGH OF FLANDERS. See 32,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 35,2\tab 'SHIRDON'.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  See }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 17 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 38,1\tab 'SUDBURY'.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  See }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 59. (JRM)}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 39,1\tab [A?] VIRGATE. The figure is omitted; 1 virgate completes a 10 hide manor (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 40,1\tab MORCAR THE PRIEST OF LUTON. See 1,2b (JRM).
\par \tab \tab For }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Luton the manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Lintone }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Luitone}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 as also in 57,4; see }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 156 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 40,2\tab \'a37 [[7s]].}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 vii lib'}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  is probably a manuscript error for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 vii sol' }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 40,3\tab 1 PLOUGH ... 3 PLOUGHS. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 PLOUGHS. '2 ploughs possible' omitted (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. See 8,6 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 42,1\tab FARNDISH. Another portion was held in Northamptonshire by William Peverel as part of the manor of H
igham Ferrers (NTH 35,1). The whole of the parish is now in Bedfordshire. Rushden (3,17. 22,2) and Podington (32,5) were also shared with Northamptonshire (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 43\tab THE FIGURE is clear in the manuscript, smudged in Farley's print (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 44,1\tab 
STORI <OF BOLINGBROKE>. The name Stori occurs on seventeen holdings in Domesday Book, probably representing no more than four, possibly only two or three individuals. The bulk of the Lincolnshire holdings devolved the same tenant-in-chief, Ivo Tallboys, t
i
ghtly-clustered around the two valuable manors of Bolingbroke and Belchford; and Stori's holding in the city of Lincoln connects Tallboys with Countess Judith, the successor to the only other Lincolnshire holding of a Stori, evidently the same man. Counte
s
s Judith's holding is almost exactly midway between the remaining Lincolnshire holdings and the two clusters of moderately substantial properties held by a Stori in Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire. The Stori's of both Lincolnshire and Derbyshire had urban 
i
nterests and full jurisdictional rights; they are therefore likely to have been lords of other men though such information is not, of course, recorded for the counties of circuit 6. What makes a linkage between the holdings in these three counties a littl
e
 more probable is the modest holdings of the Stori of Bedfordshire, where he is described as a man of Earl Tosti and was himself a lord of men. Yet his Bedfordshire holdings were extremely modest for such status. Earl Waltheof and his wife Countess Judith
 succeeded Earl Tosti on many holdings, and perhaps in his earldom; they also succeeded Stori of Bolingbroke on two of his Lincolnshire holdings. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid14182768 English Nobility}{\insrsid14182768 
, pp. 343-44, who assigns only the Lincolnshire holdings to this Stori (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 44,2\tab OSBERN. The manuscript has Osbert for Osbern, as in 23,31. 46,1 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab STORI <OF BOLINGBROKE>. See 44,1 Stori note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 44,4\tab HUGH [* HUBOLD *]. See Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 270 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab `ELVEDON'. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Place-Names of Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 17 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab STORI <OF BOLINGBROKE>. See 44,1 Stori note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 45,1\tab WULFMER OF EATON [SOCON]. See 21,10 Wulfmer note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 46,1\tab A MILL. Resources are entered before people, as occasionally elsewhere (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab OSBERN.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  The manuscript has Osbert for Osbern, as in 23,31. 44,2 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH TALLBOYS GAVE THE TRIBUTE.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  King Cnut is said to have ruled that if a landholder was more than four days overdue with his payments, whoever came forward and paid might have}{\insrsid14182768  }{
\cf1\insrsid14182768 the land (Hearne, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Hemingi Chartularium}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , i., p. 278); see }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 VCH Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , i. p. 207 (JRM).}{\insrsid14182768 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab \tab S}{\insrsid14182768 ee also 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 46,2\tab BEFORE 1066. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 T.R.E.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  accidentally repeated in the manuscript (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 47,1\tab ALLI <OF LAVENDON>. The name Alli occurs nine times in Domesday Book and may represent two or three individuals, of whom t
he royal thane holding in Bedfordshire and Buckinghamshire was the only significant landholder. As Fowler (}{\i\insrsid14182768 Bedfordshire in 1086}{\insrsid14182768 
, p. 171) pointed out almost a century ago, he was the predecessor of Countess Judith on three of these holdings, his estates lay
 in a line along the border of the two counties, and his status as royal thane or Guard, or lord of men, was recorded in all these entries. It is possible that he was the same man who held Celverdescote in Northamptonshire (NTH 18,11) though there are no 
tenurial or other links to support this (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 47,4\tab 2 HIDES LESS THE FOURTH PART OF 1 VIRGATE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 et }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 accidentally inserted in the manuscript after the '2 hides' (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 48,1\tab GILBERT.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  Elsewhere he held only 30 acres, at Felsted (ESS 73,1) (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab MEPPERSHALL.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  Ano
ther portion held in 1086 by Gilbert son of Solomon lay in Hertfordshire (HRT 40,1). It had been held in 1066 by Leofwin, a thane of King Edward. Of this estate Domesday says: 'This land is assessed in Bedfordshire with [Gilbert's] other land'. The manor 
was divided by the county boundary, and Polehanger, to the north, was in Hertfordshire. This area may have been detached; or the eastern end of Stondon and Shillington may have been included in the manor by a boundary whose course is uncertain (JRM).}{
\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab YOUNG LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See 12,1 Caddington note (JRM).}{\insrsid14182768 
\par \tab \tab See also 8,6 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 48,2\tab IN }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 'WILLEY' HUNDRED. The normal hundred order is here reversed, perhaps because Meppershall was Gilbert's principal residence (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab 8 PLOUGHS ... 3 PLOUGHS THERE ... 4 }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 PLOUGHS. '1 plough possible' omitted (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 49\tab ALBERT OF LORRAINE.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  Chaplain to King Edward and King William (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 50,1\tab HONDAY. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See }{\insrsid14182768 von Feilitzen }{\i\insrsid14182768 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid14182768 , p. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 292 (JRM).}{\insrsid14182768 
\par \tab \tab This is the only occurrence of this name in Domesday Book (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 52,2\tab [NARES] GLADLEY. Now in Heath and Reach parish, to which it may correspond (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab A }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 MILL. No population is recorded, as often on small holdings, but rarely on one of this size. The omission may be accidental, as that rectified by a marginal addition in 53,24 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,1\tab ALWOLD [* AETHELWOLD OF STEVINGTON *]. See 2,8 Aethelwold note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,2\tab HUGH [* OF BEAUCHAMP *]. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,6\tab HUGH [* OF BEAUCHAMP *]. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,8\tab OSBERN [* OF BROUAY *]. See 23,27 Osbern note.
\par \tab \tab Tenant in Bedfordshire of Hugh de Beauchamp and of Countess Judith, from whom he may also have held land in Lincolnshire (LIN 56,9); possibly the ancestor of the Disney family: Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 
, p. 318 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LEOFEVA, KING EDWARD'S MAN. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Homo }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 here includes woman (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,9\tab HUGH [* OF BEAUCHAMP *]. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,10\tab HUGH [* OF BEAUCHAMP *]. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,11\tab ALLI <OF LAVENDON>. See 47,1 Alli note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,12\tab HUGH [* OF BEAUCHAMP *]. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,14\tab HUGH [* OF BEAUCHAMP *]. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,15\tab OSBERN [* OF BROUAY *]. See 53,8 Osbern note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab 2 HIDES AND 3 VIRGATES [* IN 'SUDBURY' *]. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Perhaps Sudbury, with which this holding would make 3 hides; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 VCH Bedfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , i. p. 258, citing }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Feudal Aids}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  i. pp.}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 1, 15, 33 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab 10s. The mark over the }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 x}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 shown in Farley as the abbreviation normally written above the }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 M}{
\cf1\insrsid14182768  of marginal manor, is more probably a flourish at the end of }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 recep}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 it}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 (JRM)).}{
\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,16\tab POTTON. Entered out of hundred order. The entry is also contradictory; lands described as 'held in Potton' should not normally include Potton itself. The holding may be a half virgate in Barford, belonging to Potton (JRM).}{
\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab HUGH [* OF BEAUCHAMP *]. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,17\tab FULCHER OF PARIS. See also 24,26 Fulcher note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab LAND FOR 2 PLOUGHS ... IN LORDSHIP 1 PLOUGH. Either '1 villagers' plough', or '1 plough possible', omitted (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,18\tab FULCHER [* OF PARIS *]. See also 24,26 Fulcher note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,21\tab SUTTON. Smaller lettering is used, to 56,4 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,25\tab SWETING <OF SUTTON>. The name Sweting is rare, occurring on only a handful of scattered and (with one exception) tiny holdings, without tenurial or other associations with each other. It
 is probable that all of them were held by different individuals (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,27\tab ORDWY [* OF BEDFORD *]. The name Ordwy occurs on thirteen holdings in Domesday Book. It is probable that all five holdings of Ordwy in Bedfordshire belonged to the Ordwy called 'o
f Bedford' in 6,1 and 'the burgess' in 56,3. In four of these holdings Ordwy held in both 1066 and 1086, a distinctive pattern unlikely to involve more than one individual with an uncommon name. The fifth property lay between two of these holdings (JP).}{
\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,30\tab 
EVERTON. Another portion lay in Huntingdonshire (HUN 24,1), held in 1066 by Ingvar <of Burstead> and in 1086 likewise by Ranulf brother of Ilger. The larger part of the manor was in Huntingdonshire, but the parish is now in Bedfordshire The modern pari
sh is however somewhat small for so large a manor, and the Huntingdonshire manor may have included at least the detached part of Tetworth parish, and the strip of Cambridgeshire that divides Tetworth (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,31\tab HUGH [* OF BEAUCHAMP *]. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab TUFFA. S}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ee }{\insrsid14182768 von Feilitzen }{\i\insrsid14182768 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid14182768 
, p. 388; this is the only occurrence of this form of the name in Domesday Book (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,32\tab THE HOLDER OF THE EARL'S MANOR OF KEMPSTON. Not named, perhaps because of uncertainty. 
Kempston (53,5) is entered as held by Tosti's brother Gyrth; it may have passed to him on Tosti's exile in 1065. It is possible that the abbreviation }{\i\insrsid14182768 com' }{\insrsid14182768 
refers to Countess Judith, as 1086 holder of Kempston, but, with one exception (53,3), her name is written as }{\i\insrsid14182768 comit' }{\insrsid14182768 or }{\i\insrsid14182768 comitissa}{\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\insrsid14182768  }{\insrsid14182768 not 
}{\i\insrsid14182768 com' }{\insrsid14182768 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,33\tab HUGH [* OF BEAUCHAMP *]. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 53,34\tab HUGH [* OF BEAUCHAMP *]. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 54\tab [* ADELIZA, *] HUGH OF GRANDMESNIL'S WIFE. See Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 124-125; 262-63 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 54,1\tab MEADOW. Resources before people, see 46,1 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 54,2\tab ARNOLD <OF SUTTON>. Ten tenants-in-chief had tenants named Arnold, so it would be surprising if any one of them had two or more bearing
 the name; the Arnold who held this manor from Adeliza may therefore be the Arnold who held several estates from her husband, Hugh, in Leicestershire (LEC 13,43;45-46;64;66-67). See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 
, p. 191 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab HUGH OF BEAUCHAMP. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 54,4\tab MILTON [ERNEST]. Out of hundred order. Not said to be held of Adeliza, but by her husband's steward. It was perhaps intended as a separate chapter; see }{\i\insrsid14182768 VCH Bedfordshire}{\insrsid14182768 
, i. pp. 260-61 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab IVO [* OF GRANDMESNIL *]. Hugh de Grandmesnil had a son, Ivo, who died in the White Ship disaster (Ordericus Vitalis, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Ecclesiastical History}{\insrsid14182768 
, vi. 304-305). He may be the Ivo recorded here, who also held land from him in Leicestershi
re (LEC 13,35;44;50-51;65) and Northamptonshire (NTH 23,9;12): the name Ivo is uncommon and the office of steward an honourable one: see Mason, 'Barons and their Officials', }{\i\insrsid14182768 Anglo-Norman Studies}{\insrsid14182768 
, vol. xiii (1991), p. 256. He may also have held land from the earl of Shrewsbury in Sussex: Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 282 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 2,4 Burgred note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 55\tab [* AZELINA, *] RALPH TALLBOYS' WIFE. See also 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 55,1\tab WIFE. }{\i\insrsid14182768 Femina}{\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\insrsid14182768  }{\insrsid14182768 not implying widow, but interchangeable with }{\i\insrsid14182768 uxor}{\insrsid14182768 ;}{\i\insrsid14182768  uxor }{
\insrsid14182768 is used in the chapter title of Azelina, who was a widow, but in the Landholders' list }{\i\insrsid14182768 femina }{\insrsid14182768 is used both of Azelina, and of Adeliza whose husband was living (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 55,2\tab HOCKLIFFE. Possibly in Stanbridge Half-Hundred, since the parish lies south and west of Watling Street (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *].See 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 55,4\tab JUDICAEL [* THE PRIEST *]. See Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid14182768 Domesday People}{\insrsid14182768 , p. 282 (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab WULFMER [* OF EATON SOCON *]. See 21,10 Wulfmer note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 55,5\tab MARRIAGE PORTION. See 24,18 marriage note; compare, for example, 55,11 }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 de dote}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 dowry (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 55,6\tab WULFMER [* OF EATON SOCON *]. See 21,10 Wulfmer note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 55,8\tab WALTER THE MONK. See 25,5 Walter note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 55,9\tab WIDDER. S}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ee }{\insrsid14182768 von Feilitzen }{\i\insrsid14182768 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid14182768 
, p. 406; this is the only occurrence of this form of the name in Domesday Book (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab HUGH OF BEAUCHAMP. See 25,3 Hugh note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 55,10\tab ESKIL [* OF WARE *]. See 17,4 Eskil note and 23,38 Eskil note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 55,12\tab WALTER [* THE MONK *]. See 25,5 Walter note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab WULFMER OF EATON [SOCON]. See 21,10 Wulfmer note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 55,13\tab WULFMER OF EATON [SOCON]. See 21,10 Wulfmer note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 56,1\tab OSGAR OF BEDFORD. S}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ee }{\insrsid14182768 von Feilitzen }{\i\insrsid14182768 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid14182768 
, p. 339; this is the only occurrence of this form of the name in Domesday Book (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 56,3\tab ORDWY [* OF BEDFORD *]. See 53,27 Ordwy note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab 1 HIDE AND THE THIRD PART OF \'bd HIDE}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 . The total and the details of this holding disagree by a fraction of a virgate. Both figures make Biddenham just under 10 hides (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57\tab ?[57]? LAND OF THE KING'S REEVES, ^[BEADLES]^ AND ALMSMEN. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 The hundred order is he
re in three consecutive lists: 57,1-5 (including 57,3 i-vi grouped together on their own); 57,6-11; and 57,12-21. Of the three categories in the chapter title, reeves are named in 57,1-5 and 57,20-21; a beadle in 57,17; and an almsman in 57,19 (JRM).}{
\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab \tab A beadle was an unpopular lesser official with minor police functions (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,1\tab IN THE KING'S ADMINISTRATION. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Ministerium regis}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 
The phrase is unusual. It does not here carry any generalized meaning of 'service' or 'use', but is confined to lands which the 
king, as in other counties, distributed in small holdings to various beneficiaries, usually former public servants of various kinds (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,3v\tab "LEMAR". On the Domesday form }{\i\insrsid14182768 Lemar}{\insrsid14182768 , rendered as Leofmer in the Phillimore printed translation, see 25,12 "Lemar" note.}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,3vi\tab RALPH TALLBOYS. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 57,4\tab REEVE OF THE HUNDRED. Rarely recorded in Domesday (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 \tab LUTON. }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Lintone }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Luitone}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ;}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 see 40,1 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab BONDI THE CONSTABLE. One of the few English notables who retained lands and office for some time after 1066. He was probably sheriff of Bedfordshire, before Ralph Tallboys (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,5\tab ALWIN [* THE REEVE *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab IN LORDSHIP 1 PLOUGH ... SMALLHOLDERS WITH 1 PLOUGH. 'Land for 2(?) ploughs' omitted (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,6\tab 2 "ORA". An "ora" is literally an ounce. A unit of currency still in use in Scandinavia. Reckoned at either 16d, as probably here, or at 20d (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ALLI <OF LAVENDON>. See 47,1 Alli note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,7\tab LANK.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  See }{\insrsid14182768 von Feilitzen }{\i\insrsid14182768 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid14182768 , p. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 309 (rather than the alternative 'Land') (JRM).}{
\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,8\tab CANONS OF ST PAUL'S. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 Probably of London (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,9\tab ALRIC [* WINTERMILK *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab 4 PARTS.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  So the manuscript, as in 57,10. The zig-zag abbreviation over }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 part }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 normally abbreviates }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 partes}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ;}{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  parte}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 with a line above the }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 e}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 is normal for }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 partem}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 with }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 tam }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 added above }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 iiii }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 to indicate }{
\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 quartam}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768  }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 The usage is not however always consistent, and, since Bedfordshire Domesday has more scribal e
rrors than most counties, a mistake for 'fourth part' is possible (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab HALF AN OX IS THERE.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  The probable meaning is a half share in an ox; the other share is not reported (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,10\tab ORDWY [* OF BEDFORD *]. See 53,27 Ordwy note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,12\tab 'WESTCOTTS'.}{\cf1\insrsid14182768  See 24,13 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 \tab ORDWY [* OF BEDFORD *]. See 53,27 Ordwy note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,13\tab RALPH [* TALLBOYS *]. See 21,6 Ralph note (JP).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,14\tab GODWY DEAR OF BEDFORD. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid14182768 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid14182768 , p. 343 (JRM).}{\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid14182768 57,20\tab KING WILLIAM COMMENDED HIM. }{\cf1\insrsid14182768 See 17,5 commended note. In this instance, the Freeman was doubtless aged (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid4789874 
\par }{\insrsid4789874 
\par }}