{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}{\f36\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f77\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Helvetica CE;}
{\f78\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Helvetica Cyr;}{\f80\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Helvetica Greek;}{\f81\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Helvetica Tur;}{\f82\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Helvetica (Hebrew);}{\f83\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Helvetica (Arabic);}
{\f84\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Helvetica Baltic;}{\f85\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Helvetica (Vietnamese);}{\f397\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f398\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f400\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f401\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f402\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f403\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f404\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f405\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 
\snext0 \styrsid9506277 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\sb240\sa120\keepn\nowidctlpar
\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \f4\fs28\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Heading;}{\s16\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx360\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{\s17\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx360\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \f36\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 
\sbasedon16 \snext17 List;}{\s18\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\sb120\sa120\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \i\f36\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 \ssemihidden caption;}{
\s19\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \f36\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Index;}{\s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 Plain Text;}{\*\cs21 \additive \f3 RTF_Num 2 1;}{\*\cs22 \additive RTF_Num 2 2;}{\*\cs23 \additive RTF_Num 2 3;}{\*\cs24 
\additive RTF_Num 2 4;}{\*\cs25 \additive RTF_Num 2 5;}{\*\cs26 \additive RTF_Num 2 6;}{\*\cs27 \additive RTF_Num 2 7;}{\*\cs28 \additive RTF_Num 2 8;}{\*\cs29 \additive RTF_Num 2 9;}{\s30\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext30 \styrsid9506277 dday;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid460933\rsid548649\rsid9506277\rsid10251899\rsid11348750}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info{\author matt}{\operator John Palmer}{\creatim\yr2007\mo7\dy21\hr20\min56}{\revtim\yr2007\mo7\dy31\hr10\min14}{\printim\yr2113\mo1\dy1}{\version4}{\edmins20}{\nofpages26}{\nofwords11355}{\nofchars64730}
{\*\company  University of Hull}{\nofcharsws75934}{\vern16389}}\deftab1080\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\makebackup\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot9506277 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s30\qc \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid9506277 NOTES
\par }{\insrsid9506277\charrsid460933 (version 1a)}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }{\insrsid11348750 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 BUCKINGHAMSHIRE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 BOCHINGHA(M)SCIRE }{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 in red across both columns on folio 143abcd; }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 BOCHINGH(AM)SCIRE }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 across every other folio except the last two, folio 152cd, folio 153ab where}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
there is no title (JRM).
\par }{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 B1\tab MEADOW FOR 8 PLOUGHS. Grazing for the oxen which pulled the plough,}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
reckoned at eight. See 1,1 ploughs note (JRM).
\par }{\insrsid9506277 B3\tab BISHOP OF COUTANCES. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 Geoffrey of Mowbray, a principal minister of King William (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab 6s 6d. Domesday uses the old English currency system which endured for a thousand years}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 until 1971. The pound contained 20 shillings, each of 12 pence, abbreviated as}{\insrsid9506277 

\par }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab \'a3}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 ibrae}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ],}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  s}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 olidi}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ],}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  d}{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 enarii}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ] (JRM).}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 B5\tab AZUR SON OF TOTI. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par B6\tab AZUR ^[SON OF TOTI]^. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par B9\tab AZUR SON OF TOTI. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par B10\tab WIGLAF <OF BARTON>. The name Wiglaf occurs on five holdings in Domesday Book, clustered in and around Buckingham. Four of them devolved upon the Bishop of Bayeux, the fifth (B10) on A
rnulf of Hesdin who also held two other of Wiglaf's properties as a tenant of the bishop. On three of the bishop's four holdings Wiglaf is described as a thane of Earl Leofwin. There is little reason to doubt, therefore, that all references to a Wiglaf in
 Domesday Book are to the same individual (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 B13\tab 
LEOFWIN OF NUNEHAM. Nuneham Courtenay in Oxfordshire; see von Feilitzen, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 318. See}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 also 12,25 Alwin of Nuneham (JRM).}{
\insrsid9506277 
\par \tab \tab See also Williams, }{\i\insrsid9506277 The English and the Norman Conques}{\insrsid9506277 t, pp. 117-18; Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Domesday Peopl}{\insrsid9506277 e, p. 290 (JP).
\par }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 L\tab LANDHOLDERS. For inconsistencies in numbering, see \{Introduction: the Manuscript\} (JRM).
\par 1,1\tab LAND FOR 16 PLOUGHS. The number of ploughs entered here is the total of lordship plough
s, villagers' ploughs and ploughs 'possible'. The figures generally tally throughout the county with a few exceptions; see, for example, 8,2. 21,4. 24,1. 43,8. Meadow for the plough oxen is not always sufficient for the total number of ploughs; see, for e
xample, 5,7. 13,2 (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 1,3\tab 
EARL HAROLD. The name Harold is one of the most common in Domesday Book, occurring over 700 times; but it probably represents fewer than 20 individuals, of whom Earl Harold Godwinson is overwhelmingly the most significant, Harol
d son of Earl Ralph of Hereford being the only other individual of any consequence. With one possible exception (below), Harold is identified as the earl each time he is named in Buckinghamshire; but in a large number of cases in other counties the scribe
 
has not given Harold his title. In Essex, Norfolk and Suffolk, for instance, he is described as earl only once in each county (ESS B3k. NFK 3,2. SUF 68,1) though he undoubtedly held a large number of estates in all three, possibly all but two of those rec
o
rded in the three counties. However, there are surprisingly few cases where there is real cause for uncertainty about identifying the earl: the royal estates, the larger manors, the lordship over men, his territorial predominance in some areas, associatio
n with members of his family, and relationships between estates, serve to distinguish him in the majority of cases; but see 17,22 Harold note. Ann Williams, 'Land and power', }{\i\insrsid9506277 Anglo-Norman Studies}{\insrsid9506277 
, vol. 3 (1981), pp. 171-87, 230-34, discusses Harold's estates and those of his men; and Clarke, }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 
, pp. 164-91, lists them. Clarke tends to omit the dependencies where Harold is not explicitly named, or holdings named only in satellite texts (CON 4,2. KEN 2,5;41;43). He has also omitted the following:
 BUK 3a,5. 26,11. 30,1. CHS 8,41. ESS 1,23. HEF 1,56. 17,2. HRT 1,15. 5,5. HUN 13,1-3. NFK 8,33. 9,178; 233. 20,8;19;24;31. 21,16;22;33-34. 22,2-8. 26,3. NTT 3,1-3. OXF 58,30. SUF 1,119. 36,3;5-7;15. 38,21. 39,17. 67,12;17. 76,6;20;23. SUR 26,1. WIL 18,2.
 41,1; and the entries for GLS 30,1 and 50,3 have been confused (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab A SALT-BOILER}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
. The inland salt workings centred on Nantwich in Cheshire and Droitwich in Worcestershire used boilers for the preparation of salt, in contrast to the coastal salt-pans where the salt evaporated naturally. See WAR 28,16 salt-house note (JRM).}{
\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 1,4\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 1,5\tab UPTON.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
 In Stone Hundred, near Slough. Many hundred headings are omitted in the first chapter of the county, and the hundred 'order' does not apply. See \{Introduction: Hundreds\} (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 1,7\tab AZUR SON OF THORTH. The royal thane named here is identifiable elsewhere as a predecessor of Earl Aubrey of Coucy. It is possible that he is the same individual as Az
ur <of Slindon> (SUS 9,87 Azur note) since their holdings in Wiltshire are intermingled with each other and both had very substantial manors in the county. There are, however, no tenurial or other associations to confirm a link. See also Clarke, }{
\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 253, who does not include SOM 6,2, a substantial manor held by Azur }{\i\insrsid9506277 filius Torodi}{\insrsid9506277 
 (Exon), probably the same individual despite the different form of the surname (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 2,2\tab 
HALTON. Assumed to be in Aylesbury Hundred, its geographical position. Hundred 'order' (see \{Introduction: Hundreds\}) suggests it to be in Stone Hundred and }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
, p. 162, places it in a detached portion of Stone. Later it appears in }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Feudal Aids}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  in Aylesbury Hundred. Compare 4,5 Weston Turville note (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 2,3\tab ESGER THE CONSTABLE. See 21,7 Esger note (JP).

\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 3a,1\tab 
EIGHT HUNDREDS ... IN THE CIRCUIT OF AYLESBURY. Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 in circuitu }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 probably means no more than the translation in }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
, i. p. 233, 'which lie round Aylesbury' and not a circuit or district of Aylesbury in a formal sense. Eight hundreds, including Aylesbury Hundred, do in fact encircle Aylesbury (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 3a,3\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 3a,4\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 3a,5\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 4,1\tab HELTO [* THE STEWARD *].}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{
\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 234, notes that Helto held from the Bishop of Bayeux in Kent and was probably the bishop's steward (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par \tab \tab Helto the steward is named as holding illegally part of the royal manor of Dartford in Kent. All
 other occurrences of this name in Domesday Book are in Buckinghamshire and Kent, as a tenant of the Bishop of Bayeux so there can be little doubt that all refer to the same individual. See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Domesday People}{
\insrsid9506277 , p. 247 (JP).
\par \tab EDEVA [* THE FAIR
 *]. Edeva the fair, also named Edeva the rich (SUF 1,61;63. 31,54) and Countess Edeva (SUF 4,17) in Domesday Book, was the among the dozen wealthiest lay landowners of Anglo-Saxon England, her possessions exceeded only by those of Queen Edith and Countes
s
 Gytha among female landowners. She has often been identified with Edith Swan-neck, married for some twenty years (though not in the eyes of the Church) to Earl Harold Godwinson, and mother of at least six of his children. Conclusive proof of this identif
i
cation has never been found; but her beauty, her wealth, and its concentration in the area where Harold began his public career and was earl for almost a decade, make the identification probable. Her posthumous career tends to confirm this. She was the pr
e
decessor of Count Alan of Brittany who later abducted Harold's daughter Gunnhild from the nunnery at Wilton, probably, it has been argued, to secure title to his estates, which presupposes the identity of Edith and Edeva: Searle, 'Women and the Succession
', pp. 167-69 (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab \tab 
Edeva's status as a lord of men and predecessor of Count Alan of Brittany identify her on many holdings where her byname is omitted; a few others can be identified because she or her men had other holdings in the same vill, as in Reed 
(HRT 5,16. 16,5-6), Wratworth and Whitwell (CAM 13,9-10. 14,42-43). The Edith of Norton (SUF 1,88-90) is shown to be a scribal error for Edeva by its dependencies at SUF 1,61-64;67-73, where Edeva the fair is named in full. The Countess Edeva of SUF 4,17 
can scarcely be anyone other than Edeva the fair; the only likely alternative, Queen Edith, presupposes scribal errors in both name and title. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 
, pp. 273-79, whose list omits BUK 4,1. CAM 13,8-10. ESS 4,16. HRT 5,16. SUF 3,71;84. 4,17 (JP).
\par 4,2\tab HELTO [* THE STEWARD *]. See 4,1 Helto note (JP).
\par 4,3\tab HELTO [* THE STEWARD *]. See 4,1 Helto note (JP).
\par 4,4\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 4,5\tab WESTON [TURVILLE]. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
Assumed to be in Aylesbury Hundred although with Halton (2,2) may have been in a detached part of Stone Hundred; see 2,2 Halton note (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab GODRIC THE SHERIFF. See 4,30 Godric note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab BISHOP OF LISIEUX.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
 Gilbert Maminot, Bishop of Lisieux, the king's doctor and chaplain (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par 4,6\tab ALWIN }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 VARUS. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 uari}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  (genitive) is not as von Feilitzen, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
, p. 160, with a query mark: 'of Ware, Herts.'. See also Aelfric Varus (}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 uaru}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , 12,31) and von Feilitzen, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
, p. 179. Compare }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Edsige Ware}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , 'the Wary': Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 357 (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 4,9\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).

\par 4,13\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 4,14\tab 'DILEHURST'. Lost in Taplow, according to the }{
\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  and }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 232. Round (in }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
, i. p. 235) favoured identifying }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Dileherst }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 with Tyler's Green in Penn which is }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Tygelhurst }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 in 1316 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Feudal Aids}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
, i. p. 48) becoming Tilehurst and by corruption Tyler's; but }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 tygel- }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 is from Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 tigel }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ('a tile') and }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 dile- }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
is Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 dile }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ('dill', 'vetch'), so the two place-names are not identical (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 4,15\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 4,18\tab MARLOW. The manuscript has }{\i\insrsid9506277 Berlave }{\insrsid9506277 for }{\i\insrsid9506277 Merlave. }{\insrsid9506277 See also 28,2 and compare 14,1.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab \tab The four entries for }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 MER
LAVE}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 here and at 23,4. 28,2 and 52,1 have a total of 35 hides. They no doubt included both Great and Little Marlow but have not been differentiated (JRM).
\par 4,19\tab SAUNDERTON. Geographically in Risborough Hundred, but hundred 'order' (see \{Introduction: Hundreds\}) suggests Desborough Hundred here and at 23,5. The }{\i\insrsid9506277 Lay Subsidy Roll (1334)}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 21,}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 p. 192, have Saunderton in Desborough Hundred (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par 4,20\tab "HANECHEDENE". }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 Unidentified. }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  has Radnage, but see }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
, p. 203, note 1, which mentions an identification with Winchbottom in Chipping Wycombe. The form }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Hanechedene }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 probably represents }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Hauechedene }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 from Old English }{
\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 hafoca-dene}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 :}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 'at the valley of the hawks' (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 4,21\tab HELTO [* THE STEWARD *]. See 4,1 Helto note (JP).

\par 4,22\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 4,23\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab 
ASTON [SANDFORD]. In detached portion of Ixhill Hundred; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 114 (JRM).
\par 4,24\tab LAND [FOR *** PLOUGHS]. Space left for number of ploughs to be added (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 
<OF WADDESDON>. Although his lands devolved upon eight or nine tenants-in-chief, they can be reconstructed from his distinctive description as a thane of Queen Edith, some of 
whose manors devolved upon the Count of Mortain, Robert d'Oilly, Miles Crispin, Hugh of Bolbec and Osbern son of Richard. Other links between the Brictrics on these fiefs are provided by holdings by more than one of them in the vills of Beachendon, Chesha
m
, Littlecote, Marston and Wingrave, links which identify Brictric as a predecessor of Odo of Bayeux, Turstin Mantle and William son of Ansculf in Buckinghamshire. The only other Brictric in that county was at Helsthorpe (43,4), a couple of miles from Wing
r
ave and Horton, almost certainly the same man since he was an overlord and no other Brictric will fit this description. In Bedfordshire, too, the only unidentified Brictric was probably Brictric of Waddesdon since he was also a lord of men and his holding
 at Milton Ernest was close to the two of Brictric of Waddesdon at Clapham and Thurleigh. Brictric was the greatest landowner in Buckinghamshire before the Conquest, with large manors at Waddesdon and Marsworth and holdings valued at almost \'a3
90 out of a total of a little over \'a3100 for all counties, his 'men' having a further \'a322 between them, \'a319 of this in Buckinghamshire. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 
, pp. 262-64, whose list does not include one Chesham holding, or Kimble, Stewkely and Whaddon (JP).
\par \tab A
ZUR [* SON OF TOTI *]. The lands of the royal thane, Azur son of Toti, and his men were distributed among no fewer than nine tenants-in-chief; but he is named at least once in relation to seven of them which allows his other holdings acquired by them to b
e
 identified. The bulk of his estates, many of them substantial, lay in Buckinghamshire, though the most valuable manor was at Stanwell (MDX 11,1) in Middlesex. Their substance and his status make it likely that a single individual is involved. Among the l
esser holdings, his men whose holdings devolved upon the Count of Mortain (12,25-26) had no other lord named Azur in the county, or indeed the circuit, to choose from. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 
, pp. 253-54 (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 4,25\tab [NORTH] MARSTON. A total of 9 \'be
 hides for entries here, at 5,4. 17,7-8 and 23,17, suggests this is North Marston, identification at 17,7 confirmed by }{\i\insrsid9506277 Feudal Aids}{\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 84; see }{\i\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\insrsid9506277 
, i. p. 254. The smaller holding, 3 hides, is probably Fleet Marston. Both are in Waddesdon Hundred, though later North Marston is sometimes in Ashendon Hundred, sometimes in Waddesdon Hundred; see }{\i\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{
\insrsid9506277 , p. 107 (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab AZUR SON OF TOTI. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par 4,26\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 4,28\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 4,29\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. Young Alnoth, or Alnoth of Kent, was a major landholder in 1066, with several ver
y large holdings in Kent, Sussex, Surrey, Hampshire and Oxfordshire. Apart from the scale of his individual manors he is nearly always distinguished by the title }{\i\insrsid9506277 cilt}{\insrsid9506277 
 (Young) and by the fact that every one of his holdings devolved upon the Bishop of Bayeux
 apart from the huge manor of Bramley (SUS 8,1) used to endow Battle Abbey, and a small property in this county (17,25) where an Alnoth the Kentishman was lord of the pre-Conquest holder, Edstan. It was probably the modest scale of this holding and its ac
quisition by a tenant-in-chief other than Odo which caused Peter Clarke to omit this Alnoth from his list: }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 
, pp. 237-38. However, this is almost certainly Alnoth of Kent. Apart from the description, 'Kentishman', his man Edstan did occur els
ewhere on the fief of the Bishop of Bayeux (ESS 18,43), and the name is rare enough to make it likely that this is the same individual, despite the distance between the properties (JP).
\par 4,30\tab GODRIC [* THE SHERIFF *]. Godric is twice named as the predecessor of Henry of Ferrers (BRK 1,37 and 21,13); this and his official status enable him to be identified in many cases. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{
\insrsid9506277 , pp. 309-310 (JP).
\par \tab WIGLAF <OF BARTON>. See B10 Wiglaf note (JP).
\par 4,31\tab BALDWIN SON OF HERLEWIN. See 12,31 Baldwin note (JP).
\par 4,34\tab WIGLAF <OF BARTON>. See B10 Wiglaf note (JP).
\par 4,35\tab WIGLAF <OF BARTON>. See B10 Wiglaf note (JP).
\par 4,36\tab ALNOTH THE KENTISHMAN. See 4,29 Alnoth note (JP).
\par 4,37\tab WIGLAF <OF BARTON>. See B10 Wiglaf note (JP).
\par 4,38\tab ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See 4,29 Alnoth note (JP).
\par 4,42\tab ROBERT OF NOYERS. See 6,2 Robert note (JP).
\par 4,43\tab "ESTAN" <OF TYRINGHAM>. Apart from the Bishop of Hereford, the name }{\i\insrsid9506277 Estan}{\insrsid9506277  occurs on fifteen holdings in Domesday Book, probably representing s
even or eight individuals. Despite devolving upon three tenants-in-chief in two counties, these three holdings probably belonged to the same individual. The two Buckinghamshire holdings were each half-a-dozen miles or so from Woughton, where a Leofwin son
 of }{\i\insrsid9506277 Estan}{\insrsid9506277  is recorded (12,31). This holding in Woughton devolved upon the Count of Mortain, as did the Northamptonshire holding of }{\i\insrsid9506277 Estan}{\insrsid9506277  at Weedon. Apart from the }{
\i\insrsid9506277 Estan}{\insrsid9506277  at Loxley in Warwickshire (who is possibly the same individual), no other }{\i\insrsid9506277 Estan}{\insrsid9506277  occurs i
n the Midlands, making it probable that all these references are to the same person (JP).
\par 5,1\tab ROBERT [* SON OF WALTER *]. Named in 19,3, as a tenant of Robert d'Oilly, identified elsewhere by Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Domesday People}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 387 (JP).
\par \tab EDEVA, WULFWARD [* WHITE *]'S WIFE. See 5,2 Edeva note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab 
QUEEN EDITH. Wife of King Edward, daughter of Earl Godwin (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 5,2\tab 
EDEVA [* WULFWARD WHITE'S WIFE *]. Edeva's holdings in Buckinghamshire devolved upon the Bishop of Coutances and Walter Giffard, on two of which 
she is named in full (5,1. 14,14). Like her husband, Edeva had held properties from Queen Edith which helps to identify her. The scribe in 14,13 appears to have confused the two names. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{
\insrsid9506277 , p. 368 (JP).
\par 5,3\tab EDWIN [* SON OF BURGRED *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 5,4\tab EDWIN [* SON OF BURGRED *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 5,5\tab YOUNG WULFWARD [* WHITE *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 5,7\tab EDEVA [* WULFWARD WHITE'S WIFE *]. See 5,2 Edeva note (JP).
\par 5,8\tab EDEVA [* WULFWARD WHITE'S WIFE *]. See 5,2 Edeva note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 5,10\tab BLEADON. }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Bledone. }{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 The only place named in Domesday with the same or similar spelling}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 (Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 bleo dun}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
'blue' or 'coloured' 'hill') is Bleadon in Somerset, with which }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 240 note 5, identifies it, followed by }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
. But perhaps this is a variant spelling for Blewbury or Blewburton (}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Berkshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , pp.}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
151-52) or a lost place. See also 5,18 and BDF 3,8 Bleadon note (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 5,12\tab 
BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. Although the name Burgred occurs 
almost 60 times in Domesday Book, it was probably borne by fewer than half-a dozen individuals, of whom the royal thane, Burgred, was the most important. He and his sons were predecessors of Bishop Geoffrey of Coutances in Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire an
d
 Northamptonshire, his estates clustering around the junction of the three counties. Of the five Burgred holdings in those counties unconnected with Bishop Geoffrey, two lay in vills where Burgred of Olney had another holding (12,34. BDF 2,4), and two oth
e
rs were in vills adjacent to holdings of his (BDF 25,6. 54,4). All five belonged to men of Burgred; and since no other Burgred is named in those counties, it is probable that all five were men of Burgred of Olney. Outside these three counties the only oth
er unidentified Burgred's were a tenant Robert of Stafford on two very modest, distant holdings in Staffordshire, and a number of holdings in the furthest south-west. See Round, }{\i\insrsid9506277 VCH Bedfordshire}{\insrsid9506277 
, pp. 195-96, and Clarke, }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 , pp. 267-71, who omi
ts some of these holdings. Abels has interesting remarks on the attraction of Burgred's compact estate to men in search of a lord: 'Introduction', pp. 37-38 (JP).
\par 5,13\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 5,12 Burgred note (JP).
\par 5,14\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 5,12 Burgred note (JP).
\par 5,15\tab ALLI <OF LAVENDON>. The name Alli occurs nine times in Domesday Book and may represent two or three individuals, of whom the royal thane holding in Bedfordshire and Buckinghamshire was the only significant landholder. As Fowler (}{
\i\insrsid9506277 Bedfordshire in 1086}{\insrsid9506277 
, p. 171) pointed out almost a century ago, he was the predecessor of Countess Judith on three of these holdings, his estates lay in a line along the border of the two counties, and his status as royal thane or
 Guard, or lord of men, was recorded in all these entries. It is possible that he was the same man who held Celverdescote in Northamptonshire (NTH 18,11) though there are no tenurial or other links to support this (JP).
\par 5,16\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 5,12 Burgred note (JP).
\par 5,17\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 5,12 Burgred note (JP).
\par \tab A MAN OF }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 GOD. The phrase }{\i\f44\cf1\insrsid9506277 h\'f4 d\'ee }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 here and at 5,19, }{\i\f44\cf1\insrsid9506277 h\'f4 dei }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 at 25,2, is unusual. }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 
VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 241,}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 translates 'a man of Deus'. 'Man of God' suggests perhaps an itinerant priest or hermit (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par 5,18\tab MORCAR <OF CLIFTON>. The four holdings clustered together in the north of the county probably belonged to one individual. Three of them were held in 1086, and two or three such survivors in a restricted area is improbable. Furthermo
re, the tenant of 53,9-10 had held these properties in 1066 so he is probably the same individual as the man of Earl Harold who had held Shenley before the Conquest. Although the name Morcar occurs frequently in Domesday Book, it is an uncommon name in th
e sense that it was borne by few individuals, possibly only eight. Apart from the earl and the priest of Luton, no other Morcar occurs within a 100 miles of these holdings, which makes their tenure by one individual the more probable (JP).
\par \tab ALLI <OF LAVENDON>. See 5,15 Alli note (JP).
\par 5,20\tab OSWULF [* SON OF FRANI *]. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 Oswulf son of Frani was Robert's predecessor in all his estates in Bedfordshire (BDF 26) and Hertfordshire (HRT 21); an Oswulf son of Frani, a royal thane, preceded him in 18,2, and Oswulf, a roy
al thane, in 18,3. It is thus likely that his other predecessors named Oswulf in Buckinghamshire, Leicestershire and Northamptonshire are the same individual, particularly as there are only six other unidentified Oswulfs in these five counties. Of these s
i
x, moreover, two were predecessors of the Count of Mortain who had succeeded the son of Frani on another estate, and two others were in vills adjacent to the holdings of the son of Frani. Only the two manors acquired by Miles Crispin (23,24-25) appear to 
have no links to the holdings of the son of Frani. Frani himself might be Frani of Rockingham (Northamptonshire); see NTH 5,1 Langton note. See also Clarke, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , pp. 331-32 (JP).}{\insrsid9506277 

\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 5,21\tab 1 HIDE. In the manuscript the figure }{
\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 i}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  is blotted. }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 241, has 4 hides (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 6,1\tab ROBERT OF NOYERS. See 6,2 Robert note (JP).
\par 6,2\tab ROBERT [* OF NOYERS *]. Named as tenant of the Bishop of Lisieux in 4,42 and 6,1(-2). Possibly also the tenant of Walter Giffard in Brickhill (14,49), where Robert of Noyers held from the bishop and a Robert from Walter. See also Keats-Rohan, }{
\i\insrsid9506277 Domesday People}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 377 (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 7,1\tab THE THANE WULFSTAN}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
. Farley does not reproduce }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 steign' }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 of manuscript (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 7,2\tab "ORA".}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 Literally an ounce. A unit of currency still in use in Scandinavia. Reckoned either at 16d, as here, or at 20d (JRM).
\par 12,1\tab [LITTLE] MISSENDEN. The entries for Great and Little Missenden are clearly in Stone Hundred. They were later in Aylesbury Hundred; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 152; }{\i\insrsid9506277 
Lay Subsidy Roll (1334)}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 20.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
 This detached part of Domesday Stone Hundred may have been linked with Kimble to the north-west. Since the neighbouring parishes are all long, thin strips running south-east up the combes, part of what was later Great Hampden may have be
en included, joining Missenden to the main part of the hundred. See 17,4 Hampden note.(JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 12,2\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 12,3\tab 
PLOUGHSHARES. Or 'plough iron', from the woodland where the fuel was; iron was forged more easily there than by hauling timber to the village (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 12,4\tab 
ALMER [* OF WOOTTON *]. Named as a tenant at Wavendon of Miles Crispin (23,33) from whom he also held Wingrave which he had held in 1066 together with Soulbury (23,18;22), which also devolved upon Miles. He was the m
an of Brictric for both latter properties in Cottesloe Hundred. Wingrave is adjacent to two other holding of an Almer in Cottesloe Hundred (12,11;13), held by a tenant of the Count of Mortain and almost certainly the same man since two survivors of the sa
m
e name in such a limited area is improbable. An Almer also held Swanbourne from the Count (12,24), part of which he appears also to have held in 1066. Earl Harold had been overlord of three of these holding, and two had been held by a Siward in 1066, a th
ird by a Saeward (a possible scribal error for Siward). These multiple links make it probable that all these Almers were the same individual. Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Domesday People}{\insrsid9506277 
, p. 136, cautiously notes that he is 'said to have been ancestor to the de Wedon family' (JP).
\par 12,6\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 12,7\tab YOUNG EDWARD. See 14,36 Edward note (JP).
\par \tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 12,8\tab YOUNG EDWARD. See 14,36 Edward note (JP).
\par 12,9\tab ALAN [* OF DUCEY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 12,11\tab ALMER [* OF WOOTTON *]. See 12,4 Almer note (JP).
\par \tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 12,12\tab ALAN [* OF DUCEY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab OF WHOM ONE WAS. Farley reproduces the peculiar form }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Vhorum }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 in the manuscript, probably for}{\insrsid9506277  }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 quorum}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , that is,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  vhorum }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 hvorum }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 quorum }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 by [hw] [kw] assimilation (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par 12,13\tab ALMER [* OF WOOTTON *]. See 12,4 Almer note (JP).
\par \tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 12,14\tab WIDOW OF BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 12,18\tab GLADWIN <OF PITSTONE>. The name Gladwin is uncommon, occurring only eight times in Domesday Book. This small holding at Pitstone was remote from all others and without tenurial associations with any of the
m. It was probably the sole property of this Gladwin (JP).
\par 12,24\tab ALMER [* OF WOOTTON *]. See 12,4 Almer note (JP).
\par \tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 12,25\tab ALWIN OF NUNEHAM. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
Nuneham Courtenay. See B13 Leofwin note (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 12,26\tab ALFRED [* THE BUTLER *]. Note to be supplied (JP).

\par 12,27\tab ALWIN SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 12,28\tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 12,29\tab BONDI THE CONSTABLE. See 27,1 Bondi note (JP).
\par 12,30\tab ALFRED [* THE BUTLER *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab 2 VAVASSORS.
 Undertenants. Obsolete form retained here. It has been observed only in Domesday Hampshire and Suffolk (JRM).
\par 12,31\tab EIGHT THANES. Ten are mentioned, in fact (JRM).
\par \tab MEN. }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 cho}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 min}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 es }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 homines}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  (JRM).}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 
\par }{\insrsid9506277 \tab AELFRIC VARUS. See 4,6 Varus note (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par \tab LEOFWIN SON OF "ESTAN". See 4,43 }{\i\insrsid9506277 Estan}{\insrsid9506277  note (JP).
\par \tab BALDWIN [* SON OF HERLEWIN *]. Baldwin's father, Herlewin, came to England even before the reign of Edward the Confessor. Baldwin himself had a substantial holding befor
e the Conquest and survived to hold under the Conqueror. The bulk of his holdings can be established from his distinctive pre-Conquest name and the links which this establishes. His holdings in 1086 were significantly different from those in 1066, only tw
o
 being in his hands at both dates (17,15;24). Broadly speaking, his pre-Conquest lands were re-distributed to Hugh of Grandmesnil and William son of Ansculf, with Miles Crispin obtaining three holdings and several other tenants-in-chief a manor apiece. Wi
lliam son of Ansculf then re-endowed him with the bulk of his post-Conquest fee. See Chris Lewis, 'The French in England before the Norman Conquest', }{\i\insrsid9506277 Anglo-Norman studies}{\insrsid9506277 , vol. 17 (1995), pages 123-44, and Clarke, }{
\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 , pp. 257-58; both lists include only Baldwin's pre-Conquest holdings (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab 
[* EARL *] MORCAR. Earl Morcar was the brother of Earl Edwin, son of Earl Algar and grandson of Earl Leofric and Countess Godiva.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab \tab 
Although the name Morcar occurs over 150 times in Domesday Book, it may re
present only eight individuals, which makes the task of identifying the earl where his title has been omitted easier than it is for his brother. As no other Morcar is recorded as a lord of men, the Morcar of 12,31 is likely to have been the earl even thou
g
h the holding is close to those of Morcar <of Clifton>. The Morcar holdings in Derbyshire, Leicestershire and Nottinghamshire all devolved upon Roger of Bully which makes it probable that they had been held by one individual, almost certainly the earl in 
view of the value (\'a3
15) of the handsome manor of Gunthorpe (NTT 9,74), one of the half-dozen most valuable manors in the county, and barely 10 miles from the earl's manor of 'Newbold' (NTT 1,58). In Yorkshire, there can scarcely be any doubt that the Morcar
 who had held the royal manors, or those which devolved upon Drogo of la Beuvri\'e8
re (whose values suggest most had been royal), or the Bishop of Durham. Probably, though less certainly, the large manors acquired by Count Alan of Brittany had also been held 
by the earl. Apart from the holdings held by Morcar <of Smeaton>, the remaining Yorkshire properties were all connected to one or more of these holdings attributed to the earl. In Lincolnshire as in Yorkshire, Earl Morcar was evidently the predecessor of 
Drogo of la Beuvri\'e8
re (LIN 30), several of whose manors cluster around Skillington (2,37) and Sempringham (27,57) to which they had been connected in the past, making it likely that the Morcar on those holdings and others in the same fiefs was the earl: }{\i\insrsid9506277 
Anglo-Saxon Wills}{\insrsid9506277 
, edited by Dorothy Whitelock, no. 39, pp. 95-97;207-12. The remaining Lincolnshire holdings (LIN 56,9-10) were close to his manors of Bassingham (LIN 30,27) and Carlton (LIN 1,26), and substantial enough to please an earl. See also Clarke, }{
\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 , pp. 215-217, whose list omits the dependencies of manors and BUK 12,31. 23,2. CHS 2,21. YKS 6W2;5-6. 6N162. (6E1) (JP).
\par 12,32\tab AELFRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 12,33\tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 12,34\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 5,12 Burgred note (JP).
\par \tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 12,35\tab HUMPHREY <OF WIGGINGTON>. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 The distribution of unidentified tenants named Humphrey is skewed in the extreme. In Great Domesday only five tenants-in-chief subinf
eudated more than a single holding to a tenant of that name who cannot plausibly be identified from documentary sources: the Bishop of Coutances (2), Odo of Bayeux (2), the Bishop of London (2), William son of Stur (3), and the Count of Mortain (23). The 
C
ount of Mortain evidently did not have 23 tenants named Humphrey and may have had only one. The distribution of the Mortain tenants makes this a possibility. In three counties - Buckingham, Cornwall, and Northamptonshire - all Humphreys were Mortain tenan
ts; and in the remaining four counties with Mortain tenants named Humphrey, their distribution was distinct from that of other tenants of the same name. }{\insrsid9506277 See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Domesday People}{\insrsid9506277 
, p. 276 (JP).
\par \tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 12,37\tab A FURTHER \'bd POSSIBLE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 
Facere }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 fieri }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 12,38\tab HUMPHREY <OF WIGGINGTON>. See 12,35 Humphrey note (JP).
\par \tab LEOFNOTH SON OF OSMUND. See 43,1 Leofnoth note (JP).
\par 13,1\tab ROBERT [* OF RHUDDLAN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab EDEVA THE FAIR. See 4,1 Edeva note (JP).
\par 13,2\tab HUGH [* SON OF NORMAN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab BURGHARD [* OF SHENLEY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 13,3\tab HUGH [* SON OF NORMAN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab BURGHARD [* OF SHENLEY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 13,4\tab WILLIAM [* MALBANK *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 14,1\tab HUGH OF BOLBEC. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Molebec}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  in error. Compare }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Berlave }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 for}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  Merlave}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  in}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
4,18 and 28,2 (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 14,2\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).

\par 14,3\tab [GREAT] MISSENDEN. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 See 12,1 Missenden note (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par 14,4\tab HERBRAND [* OF SACKVILLE *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 14,6\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab WULFWARD [* WHITE *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 14,7\tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 14,8\tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 14,9\tab ALRIC [* SON OF GODING *]. The bulk of his holdings devolved upon the Count of Mortain and Walter Giffard. As predecessor of the Count, he is named in full, as often
 on Walter's holdings. Where he is not, he can usually be identified because he holds in the same vill (Hardmead; Hillesden) or was lord of the same individual (Oswy) as the son of Goding, or simply because he was a lord of men and no other of that name i
n Buckinghamshire can be identified. The holding of Alric which devolved upon Walter son of Other can be identified through the links provided by Oswy and Hardmead. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 
, pp 228-29, where the Hertfordshire references should be t
o Buckinghamshire. To the holdings listed there should be added others in the Bedfordshire vills of Holcot and Shelton (BDF 24,2;6-7) and in Milton Keynes, Bradwell, Hardmead, and Clifton Reynes in Buckinghamshire (14,47. 23,31. 29,4. 53,6). An Alwin and 
A
elfric sons of Goding are also recorded as predecessors of the Count of Mortain in Buckinghamshire (12,27;32 and also 57,17). They may be relatives; but in the case of Aelfric there is the possibility of scribal error for Alric since he is recorded as a l
ord of men but without, apparently, any land of his own (JP).
\par 14,10\tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 14,12\tab ARNULF <OF CHEARSLEY>. If the holdings of Arnulf of Hesdin, Arnulf of Ardres, and Arnulf the priest are excluded, Arnulf is an uncommon 
name, occurring a dozen times and probably representing six individuals. Given that the name was not common, it is conceivable that the Arnulf who held at Chearsley was in fact Arnulf of Hesdin who held several properties in each of the neighbouring count
i
es of Oxfordshire, Bedfordshire and Middlesex; but there are no apparent links between these properties or between Arnulf of Hesdin and Walter Giffard, the tenant-in-chief of Chearsley. If not Arnulf of Hesdin, then this was probably the sole property of 
Arnulf of Chearsley, since there are no other apparent links with unidentified Arnulfs, the nearest of these being some eighty miles away, in Warwickshire (JP).
\par 14,13\tab [* EDEVA WULFWARD WHITE'S WIFE *]. See 5,2 Edeva note (JP).
\par \tab QUEEN [* EDITH *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 14,14\tab EDEVA, WULFWARD [* WHITE *]'S WIFE. See 5,2 Edeva note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 14,17\tab 
LITTLECOTE. Clearly in Cottesloe Hundred in Domesday. Now in Stewkley parish in Mursley Hundred (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 14,18\tab 
BURSTON. Entry repeated and deleted at 35,3 (JRM).
\par }{\insrsid9506277 14,22\tab YOUNG EDWARD. See 14,36 Edward note (JP).
\par 14,23\tab YOUNG EDWARD. See 14,36 Edward note (JP).
\par 14,25\tab 
BERNER <OF THORNBOROUGH>. Individuals named Berner held two fiefs and the name also occurs as a 1086 tenant on nineteen other holdings in Domesday Book, probably representing six individuals, of whom the tenant of Mainou the Breton in Buckinghamshire and 
Northamptonshire was probably one. A second holding in Buckinghamshire (43,7), five miles from Thornborough, may have been held by the same man given its proximity and the comparative rarity of the name Berner. See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid9506277 
Domesday People}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 167 (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 14,26\tab 
800 PIGS AND 6. Probably shillings omitted, though perhaps 806 pigs was meant (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 14,27\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 14,28\tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 14,29\tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par \tab ESGER THE CONSTABLE. See 21,7 Esger note (JP).
\par \tab AZUR SON OF TOTI. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par 14,30\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab ESGER THE CONSTABLE. See 21,7 Esger note (JP).
\par 14,31\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab ALRIC [* SON OF GODING *]. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 14,32\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab ALRIC [* SON OF GODING *]. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 14,33\tab LENBOROUGH. The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 EDINGEBERGE }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 LEDINGEBERGE }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par \tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 14,34\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab ALRIC [* SON OF GODING *]. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 14,36\tab [* YOUNG *] EDWARD. Young Edward is named as holding land in three countie
s, as the predecessor of the Count of Mortain and Walter Giffard in Buckinghamshire and of Countess Judith in Lincolnshire and Northamptonshire. There are few unidentified Edwards in those three counties and is possible, even likely, that all were this ma
n
. The substantial manor of Broughton (15,1) acquired by William of Warenne was less than 10 miles from Young Edward's principal manor of Wing (12,7) and even closer to another of his holdings, at Crafton (12,8). This, the status of the holding, and the pa
u
city of unidentified Edwards makes it likely that Warenne's predecessor was Young Edward here and at Caversfield (15,2), even though the Edward on that holding was described as a thane of Earl Tosti: Warenne is unlikely to have had two predecessors named 
E
dward. In Lincolnshire, the unidentified Edward at Bytham (LIN 30,31) was encircled by Judith's holdings; and the Edward who exchanged the substantial manor of North Witham with the Bishop of Bayeux can only have been someone of the status of Young Edward
.
 If he were that man, then he had probably also held the nearby holding at Binbrook. Finally, in Northamptonshire, apart from the predecessor of Countess Judith, the one unidentified Edward held Empingham, just three miles from her manor of Tickencote. Se
e also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 
, p. 306, who accidentally assigns the Buckinghamshire holdings to Hertfordshire and whose list omits BUK 15,1-2 and NTH 35,9; he includes Binbrook but not Thoresby, which was not explicitly stated to be in Edward's possession in 1066 (JP).
\par 14,37\tab MONKS OF SAINT-PIERRE-DE-LA-COUTURE [* OF LE MANS *]. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 St Pierre-de-la-Couture is at Le Mans; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 251 (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par \tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 14,38\tab NEWTON [LONGVILLE].}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
 The Priory of St Faith at Longueville, Walter's Norman lordship, was afterwards endowed with lands here; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 251 (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab YOUNG EDWARD. See 14,36 Edward note (JP).
\par 14,41\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 14,42\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab 
LEOFWIN [* OF CADDINGTON *]. The Young Leofwin who had five holdings in Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire was probably the same individual, known from a bequest to St Albans Abbey as Leofwin of 
Caddington. His father bequeathed land to him in three of these five vills (Sawyer, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Anglo-Saxon Charters}{\insrsid9506277 
, no. 1517). One of the other two (Kensworth) was adjacent to Caddington and the other (Beeston) lay in the same general line along the border between t
he two counties. It seems probable they were held by the same individual. If not, the scribe might have attempted to distinguish men of such exalted and uncommon status: no other names in Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire were distinguished by the title }{
\i\insrsid9506277 cilt}{\insrsid9506277  whereas the neighbouring county of Buckinghamshire was home to four (JP).
\par \tab \tab Young Leofwin was described as a royal thane in three of the five entries which raises the possibility that others of that description might also be Leofwin of Caddington. This was
 certainly the case at Caddington itself, and at Meppershall. In both cases, the vill was split by the county boundary, Leofwin holding both halves of the vill, but described in Bedfordshire as Young Leofwin and in Hertfordshire simply as a royal thane (J
P).
\par \tab \tab In five of the remaining seven cases, a royal thane named Leofwin had been succeeded by Walter of Flanders who also succeeded to three other holdings of Leofwins not
 designated royal thanes. It is probable that these eight Leofwins were the same individual. Apart from some anonymous Freemen, all but two of Walter's 40 estates devolved upon him from a Leofwin or a Leofnoth, evidently his designated }{
\i\insrsid9506277 antecessores}{\insrsid9506277 . Of the
se eight holdings, three lay in the adjacent vills of Libury and Munden; the remaining five were grouped closely together, five miles or less to the north-west of Meppershall, suggesting that Walter's antecessor was Leofwin of Caddington (JP).
\par \tab \tab Other link
s point in the same direction. Nigel of Aubigny, who acquired Streatley from Leofwin of Caddington, also obtained Millbrook from Godwin son of Leofwin (BDF 24,9), perhaps his son, and Stratton from Leofwin. Stratton was a vill in which a Leofwin held from
 Walter of Flanders (JP).
\par \tab \tab Among the other Leofwins holding in the two counties, several had links with those discussed above. At Libury, both Walter of Flanders and Odo of Bayeux had been preceded by a Leofwin (HRT 5,10); as had Peter of Valognes in the a
djacent vill of Sacombe (HRT 36,11). Peter's antecessor had been a man of Earl Harold, as was Walter's predecessor in the neighbouring vill of Munden and Ralph Tallboys' in Hunsdon (HRT 44,1). While not in any way conclusive, these links tend to reinforce
 each another and the identification with Leofwin of Caddington (JP).
\par \tab \tab The remaining holdings held by the royal thane were at Barley and Bushey which have no apparent links to the remainder other than the status of the thane and their properties, both reta
ined in demesne by the tenants-in-chief who acquired them (HRT 29,1. 33,2). The only other estates held by a Leofwin in the two counties were at Clifton and Totternhoe (BDF 8,6. 40,3) and Boarscroft and Bozen (HRT 15,8. 20,12). Clifton was surrounded by t
he holdings already identified and Totternhoe was just a few miles from Caddington, so both might have belonged to Leofwin of Caddington even though Leofwin at Totternhoe was Earl Waltheof's man. Moreover, as Fowler pointed out long ago (}{
\i\insrsid9506277 Bedfordshire in 1086}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 105), the unidentified 'Puttanho' in the will of Leofwin of Caddington's father is a likely scribal error for Totternhoe, 'by the common mistake of p for \'de
, Thotenho being a known early spelling of this name'. Bozen, on the other hand, is unlikely to
 have been held by him. The holding was tiny and was in the lordship of Godwin of Benfield, too demeaning for a royal thane. Finally, the holding at Boarscroft raises an intriguing possibility. Although a modest property, it had been held freely, from Kin
g Edward. In 1086 it was still held by Leofwin, but 'at a revenue' from the tenant-in-chief who superseded him. Was this another example of an Anglo-Saxon magnate clinging precariously to a fragment of his previous estate? Fowler thought so (}{
\i\insrsid9506277 Bedfordshire in 1086}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 105 note p) (JP).
\par \tab \tab Outside Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire, there are only two other occurrences of a royal thane named Leofwin, at Ingham in Suffolk (SUF 8,32) and Ravenstone in Buckinghamshire (14,42). There are no tenurial or other links with 
the Suffolk holding, over 70 miles away. Ravenstone, however, was within 20 miles of other Caddington holdings; and given the limited distribution of royal thanes named Leofwin, and the absence of other holdings which might plausibly be attributed to this
 royal thane in Buckinghamshire, it is perhaps more likely than not that this is also Leofwin of Caddington (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab \tab 
Young Leofwins occur in four other counties: Essex, Suffolk, Shropshire and Derbyshire. Stenton was of the opinion that the title }{\i\insrsid9506277 cilt}{\insrsid9506277  was 'u
nlikely to have been applied to two different persons of the same name' and identified Young Leofwin in Derbyshire (DBY 6,29. 16,1) as Leofwin of Caddington on that basis (}{\i\insrsid9506277 VCH}{\insrsid9506277  }{\i\insrsid9506277 Derbyshire}{
\insrsid9506277 , i. 322), despite the remoteness and insignificance of the Derbyshire holdings. As there are no links other than the title }{\i\insrsid9506277 cilt}{\insrsid9506277 
 between Leofwin of Caddington and the Young Leofwins of other counties, there is unfortunately no way of testing this; but the fact that Leofwin was a common name, taken together with
 concentrated nature of the Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire holdings compared to the dispersal of the remainder, makes the identification less rather than more likely (JP).
\par 14,44\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 14,45\tab ESGER THE CONSTABLE. See 21,7 Esger note (JP).
\par \tab YOUNG EDWARD. See 14,36 Edward note (JP).
\par \tab OSWULF [* SON OF FRANI *]. See 5,20 Oswulf note (JP).
\par 14,46\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 14,47\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab ALRIC [* SON OF GODING *]. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 14,48\tab GODEBOLD. See BRK 22,8 Godebold note (JP).
\par 14,49\tab ROBERT [* OF NOYERS *]. See 6,2 Robert note (JP).
\par 15,1\tab [* YOUNG *] EDWARD. See 14,36 Edward note (JP).
\par 15,2\tab BRIAN <OF CAVERSFIELD>. The name Brian occurs without a byname on a dozen holdings in Domesday Book. Given the uncommon name and the geographical and tenurial patterns, there were probably three individuals bearing the name, t
he tenant of William of Warenne in Buckinghamshire (15,2) and Oxfordshire (OXF 22,2) - possibly the ancestor of the Gargate family - being one of them. See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Domesday People}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 170-71 (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab A FISHPOND. }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Vivarium piscium}{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 an artificial pond or 'stew' for keeping live fish and eels for domestic consumption (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab [* YOUNG *] EDWARD. See 14,36 Edward note (JP).
\par 16,3\tab PAYNE <OF TETCHWICK>. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 16,7\tab HE COULD SELL. }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 
VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 253, suggests that }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 non }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 has been omitted before }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 potuit }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 in last line [= 'he could not sell'], but see 17,26 (JRM).

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 16,8\tab 
AMBROSE <OF TILSWORTH>. The name Ambrose occurs on seven holdings in Domesday Book, each time as a tenant of William Peverel so there can be little doubt that all seven oc
currences refer to the same man. He was succeeded by two sisters, perhaps his daughters: Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Domesday People}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 150 (JP).
\par 16,10\tab DROGO <OF STOKE>. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 17,2\tab RALPH <OF WOMBOURN>. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 17,3\tab BALDWIN [* SON OF HERLEWIN *]. See 12,31 Baldwin note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 17,4\tab HAMPDEN. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
In Aylesbury Hundred here, later in Stone Hundred; see}{\i\insrsid9506277  Lay Subsidy Roll (1334)}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 20; and 12,1 Missenden note (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab BALDWIN [* SON OF HERL
EWIN *]. See 12,31 Baldwin note (JP).
\par 17,5\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 17,6\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par \tab TUBBI <OF STOKE>. The name Tubbi occurs twice in Domesday Book, on modest, widely separated holdings with no discernible connecti
on to each other; they are likely to have belonged to different individuals. Curiously, the Tubbi of Stoke appears as a lord of men, but without any property of his own. Either the name is corrupt (though recorded by }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 von Feilitzen, }
{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p}{\insrsid9506277 . 388) or there are significant omissions in the Domesday text (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 17,7\tab [NORTH] MARSTON. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
See 4,25 Marston note (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 17,8\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 
<OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 17,9\tab HOGGESTON. In Mursley Hundred geographically, tho
ugh the inserted hundred heading is not in the usual hundred 'order', see \{Introduction: Hundreds\} (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab PAYNE <OF HOGGESTON>. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab BONDI THE CONSTABLE. See 27,1 Bondi note (JP).
\par \tab EDEVA THE FAIR. See 4,1 Edeva note (JP).
\par 17,10\tab PAYNE <OF HOGGESTON>. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 17,11\tab PAYNE <OF HOGGESTON>. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 17,12\tab PAYNE <OF HOGGESTON>. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 17,14\tab PAYNE <OF HOGGESTON>. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par \tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 17,15\tab BALDWIN [* SON OF HERLEWIN *]. See 12,31 Baldwin note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 17,16\tab AELRIC. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
Perhaps an unusual note of sympathy for his condition (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 17,17\tab 4 CARUCATES. Equivalent to the hide in Danish areas, but here probably equivalent to 'land for 1 plough', or }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 inland}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
land exempt from tax; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 225. See also BDF 10,1 carucate note. For use of 'carucate' elsewhere in Buckinghamshire, compare 17,27. 31,1. 46,1 (JRM).
\par \tab THE OTHER MEN. The meaning of this passage is not clear. It could be translated: 'The burgesses have 6 \'bd ploughs, and [the] other man's, working outside the 5 hides'. Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 laborantes }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
could describe the }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 burgenses }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 or the }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 carucae}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 . }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
, i. p. 255, suggests the manuscript may be defective and the sentence incomplete. The 6 \'bd ploughs are additional to the manorial ploughs (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 17,20\tab 
ANSCULF [* OF PICQUIGNY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 17,21\tab ROBERT <OF PENN>. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab "BESI" <OF CALVERTON>. }{
\i\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid9506277 Besi}{\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid9506277 , }{\i\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid9506277 Bisi}{\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid9506277 , }{\i\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid9506277 Bosi}{\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid9506277 
, Scandinavian forms of uncertain etymology, p}{\insrsid9506277 ossibly from Old Danish }{\i\insrsid9506277 B\u511\'3fsi}{\insrsid9506277 , Old Swedish }{\i\insrsid9506277 B\u511\'3fse}{\insrsid9506277 : von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid9506277 
Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 201 (ARR).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab \tab Although the }{\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid9506277 
etymology is uncertain, t}{\insrsid9506277 enurial and other relationships suggest that these forms, which occur seven times in Domesday Book, are variants of a single name borne by two individuals. An Oxfordshire }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Besi }{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 (OXF 35,19)}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 was a predecessor of Miles Crispin who was also preceded on two of his holdings by a }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Bisi}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  (23,32) and a }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Bosi}{
\cf1\insrsid9506277  (BRK 33,8), making it highly probable that all three forms represent one individual. Miles' predecessor in Buckinghamshire is described as a royal thane, as is the }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Bisi}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
 who preceded Hugh of Bolbec (26,8). The }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Bisi}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  who preceded William son of Ansculf (17,21) was also an overlord and a close neighbour of the }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Bisi}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
 on the Crispin fief. All these holdings were therefore probably held by one man. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Besi}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , man of Alsi, with two small holdings }{\insrsid9506277 in neighbouring vills in }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
Hartismere Hundred in Suffolk, is likely to be a second individual (JP).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par 17,22\tab ACARD [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab 
HAROLD <OF TYRINGHAM>. There is little reason to doubt that that t
he Harold who held 3 hides at Tyringham is the same Harold as the thane who had shared ownership of the following, unnamed manor (17,23), probably at Astwood, some eight miles away. It is improbable that any tenant-in-chief had two predecessors with the s
a
me uncommon name, which Harold was if Harold Godwinson is excluded. It is just possible that this Harold is Earl Harold Godwinson, despite his holding being conflated with that of four other thanes (normal bureaucratic procedure in circuit three). If not,
 
the coincidences are considerable. Harold <of Tyringham> is the only Harold other than Earl Harold himself who was a thane and a lord of men before the Conquest, yet he apparently had no holdings other than these two, and no men other than Godric. He is a
l
so the only Harold apart from the earl to have a wife who is recorded as holding land in her own right. Earl Harold and his men, moreover, were predecessors of William son of Ansculf and his uncle Giles elsewhere in the county (17,2;5-6. 51,1-2). These ar
e striking coincidences. The one significant problem with the identification is the name of his wife, Aelfeva (}{\i\insrsid9506277 Aluueua}{\insrsid9506277 
).The earl's wife, otherwise named in Domesday Book only as the wife of her first husband, King Gruffydd (d. 1063), was }{\i\insrsid9506277 Aldgeat}{\insrsid9506277  (WOR 19,13) or }{\i\insrsid9506277 Aldgid}{\insrsid9506277 
 (WAR 6,5), variously translated as Aldid, Aldgyth, Edith (Orderic Vitalis, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Ecclesiastical History}{\insrsid9506277 
, ed. Chibnall, vol. ii. pp. 138, 216), or Ealdgyth. But the scribe committed many blunders in his dealings with Old English name-forms. If this Har
old is the earl, then this is the only entry in Domesday Book to name his wife, perhaps a bureaucratic blunder in dealing with a politically sensitive matter (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab "ESTAN" <OF TYRINGHAM>. See 4,43 "Estan" note (JP).

\par \tab HAROLD. See 17,2 Harold note (JP).
\par \tab AELFEVA, HAROLD'S WIFE. See 17,2 Harold note (JP).
\par 17,23\tab HAROLD <OF TYRINGHAM>. See 17,22 Harold note (JP).
\par 17,24\tab BALDWIN [* SON OF HERLEWIN *]. See 12,31 Baldwin note (JP).
\par 17,25\tab ANDREW <OF CHICHELEY>. The name Andrew occurs as a 1086 tenant with modest h
oldings in three counties, from three different tenants-in-chief. The rarity of the name, geography, tenure and status make it probable that this was the sole property of the Buckinghamshire Andrew (JP).
\par \tab EDSTAN <OF THORRINGTON>. Despite the distance betwe
en these two holdings it is possible that they belonged to one individual with this uncommon name, the link being provided by their acquisition by the Bishop of Bayeux. Although Bishop Odo is not recorded as holding Chicheley (17,25), the Bishop's predece
ssor, Alnoth of Kent, had held it and every other holding of Alnoth of Kent had devolved upon the Bishop. It is likely, therefore that it had passed through his hands and Edstan had been his tenant here also (JP).
\par \tab ALNOTH THE KENTISHMAN. See 4,29 Alnoth note (JP).
\par 17,26\tab PAYNE <OF HOGGESTON>. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 17,28\tab HERVEY [* THE COMMISSIONER *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 17,29\tab PAYNE <OF HOGGESTON>. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab 2 OR [***]. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 T.R.E. }{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 value }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 ii. vel }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 is}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 followed by a gap, perhaps for }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 sol.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 or the entry is awaiting revision (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 17,30\tab 
BALDWIN [* SON OF HERLEWIN *]. See 12,31 Baldwin note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab SILVER MARK. 13s 4d making 3 marks to \'a32 (JRM).

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab 
BALDWIN [* SON OF HERLEWIN *]. See 12,31 Baldwin note (JP).
\par 17,31\tab SAEWOLD <OF MILTON>. Apart from 
Abbot Saewold, whose name occurs only in Exon (SOM 7,15 note), the name Saewold occurs on thirteen holdings in Domesday Book, probably representing six individuals. The Saewold with a ploughland in Milton in 1066 had no namesakes sufficiently close to be 
plausibly linked to him (JP).
\par \tab YOUNG WULFWARD [* WHITE *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par 18,1\tab GILBERT [* OF GHENT *]. The Gilbert who held Stone and Cheddington from Robert of Tosny was probably Gilbert of Ghent. Gilbert's manor of Edlesborough lay just a few m
iles from Cheddington and had been acquired from the royal thane Ulf Fenman, Gilbert's major predecessor, from whom Robert probably acquired Stone, held by the royal Guard Ulf in 1066. Robert also held Duxford in Cambridgeshire (CAM 20,1) from the same ma
n and here, too, Gilbert of Ghent was his tenant. The Buckinghamshire holdings do not appear to be listed among Gilbert of Ghent's holdings, or elsewhere, by Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Domesday People}{\insrsid9506277 , pp. 210-211 (JP).
\par \tab ULF [* FENMAN *]. The royal Guard Ulf whose holdin
gs devolved upon Robert of Tosny in Buckinghamshire and Cambridgeshire was probably Ulf Fenman. The Cambridgeshire manor was held from Robert by Gilbert of Ghent, whose predecessor was Ulf Fenman, while the Buckinghamshire manor was held from Robert by a 
Gilbert, who can probably be safely identified as Gilbert of Ghent on the basis of these links. Gilbert's large manor of Edlesborough in Buckinghamshire was acquired from the royal thane Ulf, almost certainly Ulf Fenman (JP).
\par 18,2\tab GILBERT [* OF GHENT *]. See 18,1 Gilbert note (JP).
\par \tab OSWULF SON OF FRANI. See 5,20 Oswulf note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 18,3\tab WILLIAM OF BOSC-LE-HARD.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
 The Domesday form is }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Boscroard}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 74 under }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 de Boscroard}{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 , and p. 73 under }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 de Bosc}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 discusses a suggestion for a surname from Bosc-le-Hard, in the French d\'e9partement of Seine-Inf\'e9
rieure [now Seine-Maritime], in Normandy; see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , Map I, p. 64. But an alternative and more satisfactory analysis of the form }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Boscroard }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
should be suggested: a French place-name (unidentified as yet) from }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 bosc }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 (French }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 bois}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , 'wood') and the Old French personal name }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Roart}{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  Ruard}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  from Old German }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Hrodard}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ; see Forssner, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Continental-Germanic}{\i\insrsid9506277  }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 
Personal-Names in England}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 220, under }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Rothard}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab OSWULF [* SON OF FRANI *]. See 5,20 Oswulf note (JP).

\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 19,1\tab PADBURY.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
 Held by Mainou the Breton in 43,8 but no mention is made of this exchange there (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 19,2\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 
<OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 19,3\tab ROBERT SON OF WALTER. See 5,1 Robert note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab \'a36...8 HIDES... The man
uscript is blotted, probably as the scribe wrote the number of pounds, but}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 the numerals are legible and Farley shows them correctly (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab GODRIC THE SHERIFF. See 4,30 Godric note (JP).
\par 19,4\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 19,6\tab ROBERT [* SON OF WALTER *]. See 5,1 Robert note (JP).
\par \tab AZUR SON OF TOTI. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par 19,7\tab AZUR SON OF TOTI. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 20,1\tab CATTLE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Animalia}{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 Horses and other domestic animals kept for the use of the court. See 19,2 for horses of the court (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 21,2\tab ESGER THE CONSTABLE. See 21,7 Esger note (JP).

\par 21,3\tab ESGER THE CONSTABLE. See 21,7 Esger note (JP).
\par 21,4\tab ESGER THE CONSTABLE. See 21,7 Esger note (JP).
\par 21,5\tab ESGER THE CONSTABLE. See 21,7 Esger note (JP).
\par 21,6\tab ESGER THE CONSTABLE. See 21,7 Esger note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 21,7\tab 
[***] VILLAGERS. Gap left for the number to be added (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab 
ESGER [* THE CONSTABLE *]. The name Esger occurs on over 130 holdings but may repre
sent only six individuals. Of these, by far the most important was Esger the constable, predecessor of Geoffrey de Mandeville on the bulk of his holdings. So pronounced was the descent of Esger's holdings to Geoffrey that one way the Domesday scribe had o
f
 casting doubt on the legality of Geoffrey's tenure of any property was to state 'it was not of Esger's Holding' or words to that effect (ESS 30,2. SUF 32,1. SUR 25,1;3). Where not explicitly identified as the constable, therefore, Geoffrey's succession t
o
 the holdings of an Esger, or frequently of his men, plausibly identifies Esger as the constable. On two other holdings where Esger is not explicitly identified as the constable, his man is identified elsewhere as a man of the constable (HRT 17,10. 33,13;
18-19), or another of his men held land in the vill concerned (CAM 22,8. 32,16), making the identification more likely than not, particularly as no other Esger can be identified as a lord of other men. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility
}{\insrsid9506277 , pp. 243-49, who omits holdings at CAM 32,11. ESS 90,28. NTH 45,8 and SUF 32,4-5 (JP).
\par 21,8\tab ESGER THE CONSTABLE. See 21,7 Esger note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab ALWIN VARUS}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
. See 4,6 Varus note (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 22\tab GILBERT OF GHENT. See also 18,1 Gilbert note (JP).

\par 22,1\tab ULF [* FENMAN *]. See 18,1 Ulf note (JP).
\par 23,2\tab EARL MORCAR. See 12,31 Morcar note (JP).
\par 23,5\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 23,6\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 23,9\tab VIKING <OF ASHENDON>. The name Viking occurs on eighteen holdings in Domesday Book, probably repres
enting five or six individuals. The single holding in Buckinghamshire is close enough to the three in Warwickshire (WAR 28,10. 44,5;9) to have belonged to the same individual in 1066, though there are no links to confirm this. The Buckinghamshire tenant w
as the only Viking holding land in 1086, having also held the same property before the Conquest (JP).
\par 23,10\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 23,11\tab 'SHORTLEY'. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
Lost in Quainton; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ; }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 111 (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 
<OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 23,13\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par \tab AZUR [* SON OF TOTI *]. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par 23,14\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 23,17\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 23,18\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 23,20\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 23,21\tab 
"LEMAR". In the printed Phillimore edition this name was rendered Leofmer. As von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 309, was unsure as to whether the Domesday form }{\i\insrsid9506277 Lemar'}
{\insrsid9506277  represented Old English }{\i\insrsid9506277 Leofm\'e6r }{\insrsid9506277 or Old English }{\i\insrsid9506277 Leodm\'e6r}{\insrsid9506277 , and left his headword as Lemar, it has been thought safest for the present edition to keep to th
e Domesday form. The Alecto edition has Lemar. This is the only occurrence of this name-form in Domesday Buckinghamshire.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 
<OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 23,22\tab ALMER [* OF WOOTTON *]. See 12,4 Almer note (JP).
\par \tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 23,23\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 23,24\tab OSWULF [* SON OF FRANI *]. See 5,20 Oswulf note (JP).
\par 23,25\tab OSWULF [* SON OF FRANI *]. See 5,20 Oswulf note (JP).
\par \tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 23,26\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 23,27\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 23,28\tab 
A PLOUGH THERE. Perhaps an error for 'It (the half-plough) is there' (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 
<OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 23,29\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 23,31\tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 23,32\tab "BESI" <OF CALVERTON>. See 17,21 "Besi" note (JP).
\par }{\insrsid9506277 23,33\tab ALMER OF WOOTTON. See 12,4 Almer note (JP).
\par 24,1\tab WULFWYNN [* OF CRESLOW *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 25,2\tab A MAN OF GOD.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
 See 5,17 God note (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 26,3\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 
<OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 26,5\tab "BROCH".}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
It is probable that Brooks's Copse (at SU8186 on the Ordnance Survey 1:25,000 map) is the last trace of this Domesday manor of }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Broch}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ; see}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 191 (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 
<OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 26,7\tab HUGH HOLDS. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
Both the manuscript and Farley repeat }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 ten' }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 
<OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 26,8\tab "BESI" <OF CALVERTON>. See 17,21 "Besi" note (JP).
\par }{\insrsid9506277 26,11\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 27,1\tab 
4 SLAVES. Their number is unclear in the manuscript. The first stroke is smaller than the others in the group and could be a badly blotched dot. Farley is probably right to read it as 4, although the reading 3 cannot be ruled out (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab 
[BONDI] THE CONSTABLE. Bondi is named as the constable on the fiefs of William son of Ansculf (17,9), the Count of Mortain (12,29), and Henry of Ferrers (27,1), though 
named Boding the constable in Henry's case. This was certainly Bondi, however, since Henry succeeded him in four other counties and laid claim in a fifth as Bondi's successor (GLS 31,2). Apart from other the links through the Count of Mortain and William 
son of Ansculf, it is probable that the Bondi who held manors valued at over \'a3
10 was, in most, of not all cases, the constable; and his status as a lord of men identifies him at Colemore in Hampshire (HAM 57,2), and therefore probably on the adjacent holdin
g at Empshott (HAM 62,1). Finally, the Bondi who preceded Countess Judith in several of her holdings in Northamptonshire may also have been the constable. There can be little doubt that the Countess had only one predecessor named Bondi, five of his seven 
holdings being centred on Earls Barton, held with full jurisdiction, the whole complex worth \'a3
16. Its status certainly befitted someone of the constable's status, and Earls Barton was just a couple of miles from his manor at Ecton, acquired by Henry of Ferr
ers. Some further, if slight support, for this identification is supplied by Orderic Vitalis, according to whom Earl Waltheof granted the manor of Barnack to Crowland Abbey, a gift later defeated by 'the malice of the Normans' (}{\i\insrsid9506277 
Ecclesiastical History}{\insrsid9506277 , ed. 
Chibnall, ii. pp 344-45). Barnack was held in Domesday Book by William son of Ansculf, as noted above the constable's predecessor elsewhere. He may, therefore, have stepped into Waltheof's shoes in those cases, too, Waltheof being the first to succeed to 
those estates of the constable. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 , pp. 266-67, whose list omits ESS 29,5. HAM 57,2. 62,1. IoW9,15. NTH 36,2. 56,15-18;37-38;53 (JP).
\par 27,2\tab [BONDI] THE CONSTABLE. See 27,1 Bondi note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 28,2\tab MARLOW. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
See 4,18 Marlow note (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab ESGER THE CONSTABLE. See 21,7 Esger note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 28,3\tab [FLEET?] MARSTON. Domesday }{\i\insrsid9506277 Merstone
}{\insrsid9506277  is p}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 robably Fleet Marston. See 4,25 Marston note; }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 136 (JRM).
\par 29\tab FOR THE CHAPTER NUMBER, the manuscript has XXXIX in error. Farley numbers in sequence (JRM).
\par }{\insrsid9506277 29,1\tab HORTON.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 STOCHES }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 deleted by underlining and }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 HORTUNE }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 written above (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par 29,2\tab ETON.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  Assumed to be in Stone Hundred, as Burnham Hundred is probably here misplaced in mistake for the next entry. Eton was in Stoke Hundred in }{\i\insrsid9506277 Lay Subsidy Roll (1334)}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 21; }{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 see }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 236 (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 29,4\tab 4 HIDES. This unnamed manor is certainly Hardmead; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 266 (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab ALRIC [* SON OF GODING *]. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).

\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 30,1\tab 
1 HIDE AND 1 VIRGATE. This unnamed manor is probably at Bow Brickhill; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 266 (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 33,1\tab SWETING <OF SOUTHCOTE>. The name Sweting is rare, oc
curring on only a handful of scattered and (with one exception) tiny holdings, without tenurial or other associations with each other. It is probable that all of them were held by different individuals (JP).
\par 35,1\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 <OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 35,3\tab 
BURSTON. Repeat of 14,18 deleted by underlining (JRM). In fact the entry has been lined through for deletion.
\par }{\insrsid9506277 36\tab TURSTIN MANTLE.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 TURTINI }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 TURSTINI }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 36,3\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 
<OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par 37,1\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 37,2\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 39,2\tab KINGSEY. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 From its size }{
\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 EIE }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 included both Kingsey and Towersey (now in Oxfordshire). The two villages are now divided by the county boundary, but Kingsey, before 1894, w
as partly in Oxfordshire, Towersey at that time being in Buckinghamshire. By an order of 1932 the two parishes were exchanged between the two counties. The County Archivist of}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
Buckinghamshire kindly provided this information (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par 40,1\tab DRAYTON [PARSLOW]. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 It would seem that, thanks to Domesday, Ralph Passwater (French, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Passe l'eau}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ) regained this manor as the place still retains his name (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 \tab BEFORE 1066. }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 T.R.R. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 T.R.E. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab LEOFWIN OF NUNEHAM. See B13 Leofwin note (JP).
\par 41,1\tab AZUR SON OF TOTI. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par 41,3\tab BURGRED <OF OLNEY>. See 5,12 Burgred note (JP).
\par 41,4\tab AZUR SON OF TOTI. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par 41,5\tab AZUR [* SON OF TOTI *]. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par 41,6\tab AZUR SON OF TOTI. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 41,7\tab 'HASELEY'.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  Now lost in Thorn
ton; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ; }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire,}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  p. 64 (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par 42\tab RICHARD THE ARTIFICER.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Ingania }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 has the double meaning of 'engineer' and an 'ingenious' or 'crafty'}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
person; see HUN 19,15;26; Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 347 (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 42,1\tab WULFWARD [* WHITE *]. Note to be supplied (JP).

\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 43\tab LAND OF MAINOU THE BRETON. }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
For 'land' Farley in error has }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 TR A}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 manuscript shows }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 TERRA}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
 clearly (JRM).
\par }{\insrsid9506277 43,1\tab LEOFNOTH [* SON OF OSMUND *]. Although Leofnoth is a common name, there is a pronounced p
attern to its distribution in the south Midlands. All the estates of Walter of Flanders in Northamptonshire (NTH 39,1-18) were acquired from Leofnoth, stated in the text to be the same individual. Walter also inherited the bulk of his estates in Bedfordsh
i
re (BDF 32,1;3-9) from Leofnoth, described as a royal thane in most entries and evidently the same individual as his Northamptonshire predecessor. The royal thane Leofnoth also held one manor in Buckinghamshire (43,1). The only other Leofnoth in the count
y
 (12,38) was also a lord of men and possibly the same individual. This Leofnoth was named son of Osmund, the only appearance of this name in Domesday Book. His holding at Wavendon lay between the holdings of Walter's predecessor in Bedfordshire and Northa
m
ptonshire. Wavendon was also adjacent to the only other two estates in Bedfordshire (BDF 33,1-2) held by a royal thane named Leofnoth. They were acquired by another Flemish tenant-in-chief, Walter brother of Sihere, probably the nephew of Walter of Flande
rs, one of whose holdings (32,15) strongly implies that the two Walters had acquired their estates from the same Leofnoth, further strengthening his identification with the son of Osmund (JP).
\par \tab \tab One other estate in Bedfordshire was held by a Leofnoth who wa
s a lord of men, at Carlton (BDF 24,20), surrounded by the holdings of the son of Osmund and so probably his, too. Finally, there were half-a-dozen other estates held by a Leofnoth in Northamptonshire which may have been his. These, unfortunately, do not 
g
ive the lordship detail which would aid identification; but the holding at Grimsbury (NTH 48,1) had been held 'with full jurisdiction' and had devolved upon another of the Flemish tenants-in-chief, Gunfrid of Chocques; and those at Litchborough and Crough
t
on (NTH 13,1. 18,64) were held freely and adjacent to other holdings of the son of Osmund. One of these devolved upon the Count of Mortain, who had acquired another holding from Leofnoth (NTH 18,40). That holding, though, was somewhat apart from the other
s and modestly endowed. Peter Clarke (}{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 
, pp. 319-20), adds Berkswell (NTH 19,2) to this list but, curiously, not the other holdings of Leofnoth acquired by the Count of Meulan (NTH 19,1;3. WAR 16,24;27;31) which have several features which li
nk them. Although the links are not as convincing as those discussed above, this Leofnoth might well be the son of Osmund: he held freely; some of the properties were modestly substantial; two of them were reasonably close to those of the son of Osmund; a
nd no other Leofnoths held in Warwickshire or nearby. Like many others of his condition, Leofnoth son of Osmund may have been allowed to survive on a fragment of his former estate (NTH 39,13), as a tenant of Walter of Flanders at Plumpton (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 43,4\tab BRICTRIC}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\insrsid9506277 
<OF WADDESDON>. See 4,24 Brictric note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 43,6\tab 1 VILLAGER HAS. }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Habent }{
\cf1\insrsid9506277 is}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 a plural verb with singular subject, but }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 unus villanus cum}{\insrsid9506277  }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 iii bordariis }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
is a sort of collective (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 43,7\tab 
BERNER <OF THORNBOROUGH>. See 14,25 Berner note (JP).
\par 43,11\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 44,1\tab GODRIC THE SHERIFF. See 4,30 Godric note (JP).
\par 44,2\tab EDEVA THE FAIR. See 4,1 Edeva note (JP).
\par 44,5\tab EDEVA THE FAIR. See 4,1 Edeva note (JP).
\par 45,1\tab MORCAR <OF CLIFTON>. See 5,18 Morcar note (JP).
\par \tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 46,1\tab WINEMAR}{\insrsid11348750  ^[OF FLANDERS]^}{
\insrsid9506277 . The name Winemar occurs on almost three dozen holdings and probably represents five individuals. The Winemar who held 30 holdings in Northamptonshire and one in Buckinghamshire was probably the same individual, named Winemar of Fla
nders in Buckinghamshire (BUK 46). The descent of his manors also identifies him as the Winemar with a fief in Northamptonshire (NTH 40). Winemar's Buckinghamshire manor was at Hanslope (46,1), which identifies him as the Winemar of 'Hanslip', tenant of C
o
untess Judith (NTH 56,51;65), almost certainly the same Winemar who held from her in neighbouring vills (NTH B34. 56,54-57h). Winemar 'of Hanslip' was also associated with the Bishop of Coutances in one holding (NTH 56,65) and so was probably the Winemar 
w
ho was his tenant at Hackleton and Preston Deanery, particularly as Winemar of Flanders held in chief in the latter vill. Of the remaining Northamptonshire properties, one was in Northampton itself, where Winemar held alongside Countess Judith (NTH B20); 
another was in Wootton, where he held as tenant-in-chief; and a third was at Rothersthorpe (NTH 44,2) where his son held demesne land (Farrer, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Honors and Knights' Fees}{\insrsid9506277 
, i. pp. 95-99). It is improbable, given the peculiar distribution of the name, that the one remaining Northamptonshire holding, at Knuston, was held by a different individual. It has been suggested that the same man also held at Stoke in Devon (DEV 20,12
)
, Colchester in Essex (ESS B3a), and Tuddenham in Norfolk (NFK 66,68); but given the modest scale of all three properties, the distances involved, and the absence of the Flemish connection evident on Winemar's Northamptonshire properties, this seems unlik
ely, despite the rarity of the name: see Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Domesday People}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 408 (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 47,1\tab AZUR SON OF TOTI. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 48,1\tab 
IBSTONE. On the Oxfordshire border. Until 1895 the boundary ran through the main}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 living room of the manor house; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 185 (JRM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 49,1\tab AZUR SON OF TOTI. See 4,24 Azur note (JP).
\par 50,1\tab SWEIN [* SON OF AZUR *]. The Swein who held as a tenant-in-chief in Northamptonshire is identified in the Borough entries as Swein son of Azur. This relationshi
p makes it probable that the father and son of those names from whom Gunfrid of Chocques acquired the bulk of his fief were the same men, his predecessors. See }{\i\insrsid9506277 VCH Northamptonshire}{\insrsid9506277 , i. 292-92 (JP).
\par 51,1\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 51,2\tab EARL HAROLD. See 1,3 Harold note (JP).
\par 53,1\tab THORKIL [* THE DANE *]. Thorkil, also known as Thorkil of Harringworth (see HUN 2,8 Thorkil note), has been identified as the predecessor of Countess Judith in four counties, providing the countess with several handsome m
anors, particularly in Huntingdonshire and Northamptonshire. If this Thorkil is, in fact, the same individual in every case, then he provides another example of an Anglo-Saxon magnate surviving on a fragment of his previous estate, since the Thorkil at Ho
llingdon (53,1) held that property at both dates; but see HUN 20,2 Sawtry note. See Clarke, }{\i\insrsid9506277 English Nobility}{\insrsid9506277 , pp. 346-47 (JP).
\par 53,3\tab ROGER [* OF OLNEY *]. Named as a tenant of Countess Judith at Clifton (53,6) and probably the same man as the Roger who held from her in the adjacent vills of Lavendon and Emberton (53,3;8). See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid9506277 
Domesday People}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 406 (JP).
\par \tab ALLI <OF LAVENDON>. See 5,15 Alli note (JP).
\par 53,4\tab ALLI <OF LAVENDON>. See 5,15 Alli note (JP).
\par 53,6\tab ROGER OF OLNEY. See 53,3 Roger note (JP).
\par \tab ALRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 53,8\tab ROGER [* OF OLNEY *]. See 53,3 Roger note (JP).
\par 53,9\tab MORCAR <OF CLIFTON>. See 12,31 Morcar note (JP).
\par 53,10\tab MORCAR <OF CLIFTON>. See 12,31 Morcar note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 54\tab 
THERE ARE THREE HOLES in the manuscript, now filled in with repair parchment. Farley does not reproduce the}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
holes [except in the second line of 54,1]. One is to the left of chapter 54 title, one in chapter 54 and one in}{\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 chapter 55. The writing goes round the holes (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab 
AZELINA, [* WIFE OF RALPH TALLBOYS *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 56\tab ALSI.}{\cf1\insrsid9506277  See }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 
VCH Buckinghamshire}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 216, on Wulfward White, his wife and Alsi, his son-in-law (JRM).}{\insrsid9506277 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 56,2\tab WULFWARD [* WHITE *]. Note to be supplied (JP).

\par 57,1\tab LEOFWIN OF NUNEHAM. See B13 Leofwin note (JP).
\par 57,2\tab LEOFWIN ^[OF NUNEHAM]^. See B13 Leofwin note (JP).
\par 57,3\tab LEOFWIN ^[OF NUNEHAM]^. See B13 Leofwin note (JP).
\par 57,4\tab LEOFWIN ^[OF NUNEHAM]^. See B13 Leofwin note (JP).
\par 57,5\tab LEOFWIN ^[OF NUNEHAM]^. See B13 Leofwin note (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid9506277 57,8\tab LEOFWIN "CHAUA". 'Quick, active'; see Tengvik, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 343 (JRM).
\par \tab \tab In the Phillimore printed edition the byname Cave is used, which is the modern English form according to Tengvik. However, according to Reaney, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Dictionary of British Surnames}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
, under Cave, this surname comes from the place-name Cave (Yorkshire). It seems best therefore to retain the Domesday form, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Chaua}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 . The Alecto edition has Chava.
\par }{\insrsid9506277 \tab \tab It is possible that this Leofwin is actually the same person as the Leofwin in the next entry (57,9), whose byname is also uncertain. At some stage in the Domesday process their bynames, }{\i\insrsid9506277 chaua}{
\insrsid9506277  and }{\i\insrsid9506277 oaura}{\insrsid9506277 , could have been miswritten or mistranscribed. The Leofwin who holds 'Wanden' (57,10) may also be the same individual. All three Leofwi
ns (assuming 'Leofwin the king's reeve' is the same as Leofwin "Chaua") had held in 1066 and 'could sell'. Nothing has been found in the descents of the estates of Wavendon and Simpson (57,8-9) that helps to prove the identity of Leofwin "Chaua" and Leofw
in "Oaura", although the similarity of their names seems more than coincidental. Wavendon is named from a man called }{\i\insrsid9506277 Wafa,}{\insrsid9506277  an Old English hypothetical name-form assumed to be the same as Old English }{
\i\insrsid9506277 Waba}{\insrsid9506277  (}{\i\insrsid9506277 Place-Names of Buckinghamshire}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 39; Ekwall, }{\i\insrsid9506277 Dictionary of English Place-Names}{\insrsid9506277 
). However, he lived before 969 when Wavendon is first attested. The vills of Wavendon and Simpson are adjacent and the various parts (12,36-38. 26,11. 57,5;8-9) add up to a neat 10 hides. On the other hand, the Leofwin of 57,10
 may well be a different man; he is identified as Leofwin of Nuneham by }{\i\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{\insrsid9506277 , iii. p. 23.
\par }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 57,9\tab LEOFWIN "OAURA". In the}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277  }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 oaura }{\cf1\insrsid9506277 is interlined. The initial }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 o}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 
- is clear in the manuscript. 'Restless', 'wavering'; see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 , p. 352 (JRM).
\par \tab \tab In the Phillimore printed edition the byname Wafre is used, but this does not fit with either the Domesday form (}{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 oaura}{\cf1\insrsid9506277 ) or with the supposed Old English word }{\i\cf1\insrsid9506277 w\'e6fre}{
\cf1\insrsid9506277  meaning 'restless' etc. mentioned by Tengvik. It seems better therefore to keep to the Domesday form. The Alecto edition has Oaura. On the possibility that this Leofwin is the same person as the Leofwin of 57,8, see 57,8 Leofwin note.

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 57,10\tab LEOFWIN. See 57,8 Leofwin note.
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 \tab 'WANDEN'. }{\i\insrsid9506277 VCH Buckinghamshire}{
\insrsid9506277 , i. p. 276, has ?Wendover Dean for }{\i\insrsid9506277 Wandene}{\insrsid9506277 . }{\i\insrsid9506277 Domesday Gazetteer}{\insrsid9506277  also but not }{\i\insrsid9506277 Place-names of Buckinghamshire}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 157 (JRM).

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid10251899 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid9506277 57,14\tab 
HARDING <OF HORSENDEN>. The name Harding occurs or is implied on some four dozen holdings in Domesday Book, probably representing four or five individuals. This Harding has been identified as Harding son of Alnoth by Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid9506277 
Domesday People}{\insrsid9506277 , p. 244, presumably on the grounds that three surviving Englishmen with the same uncommon name - Harding of Oxford, Harding son of Alnoth, and Harding of H
orsenden - is unlikely. These two modest, neighbouring properties, however, have no discernible links with other holdings attributed to the son of Alnoth, and the shared ownership of Bradenham tells against the identification with him (JP).
\par 57,15\tab HARDING <OF HORSENDEN>. See 57,14 Harding note (JP).
\par 57,17\tab AELFRIC SON OF GODING. See 14,9 Alric note (JP).
\par 
\par }}