{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}{\f36\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f703\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f704\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f706\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f707\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f708\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f709\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f710\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f711\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f743\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Helvetica CE;}
{\f744\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Helvetica Cyr;}{\f746\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Helvetica Greek;}{\f747\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Helvetica Tur;}{\f748\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Helvetica (Hebrew);}{\f749\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Helvetica (Arabic);}
{\f750\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Helvetica Baltic;}{\f751\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Helvetica (Vietnamese);}{\f1063\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1064\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f1066\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1067\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1068\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f1069\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1070\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1071\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;\red51\green51\blue51;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 
Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa120\keepn\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f4\fs28\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Heading;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx360\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx360\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon16 \snext17 List;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\f36\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 \ssemihidden caption;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 
Index;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Plain Text;}{\s21\ql \fi-1134\li1134\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx1134\tx1418\tx9781\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1134\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext21 dday;}{\*\cs22 \additive \f3 RTF_Num 2 1;}{\*\cs23 \additive RTF_Num 2 2;}{\*\cs24 \additive RTF_Num 2 3;}{\*\cs25 
\additive RTF_Num 2 4;}{\*\cs26 \additive RTF_Num 2 5;}{\*\cs27 \additive RTF_Num 2 6;}{\*\cs28 \additive RTF_Num 2 7;}{\*\cs29 \additive RTF_Num 2 8;}{\*\cs30 \additive RTF_Num 2 9;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid460933\rsid548649\rsid791211\rsid4397692
\rsid12330816}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info{\author matt}{\operator John Palmer}{\creatim\yr2007\mo7\dy21\hr20\min55}{\revtim\yr2007\mo7\dy31\hr12\min24}{\printim\yr2113\mo1\dy1}{\version4}{\edmins25}{\nofpages65}{\nofwords28648}
{\nofchars163295}{\*\company  University of Hull}{\nofcharsws191560}{\vern16389}}\deftab1080\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\makebackup\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984
\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot791211 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s21\qc \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid791211 NOTES
\par }{\insrsid791211\charrsid460933 (version 1a)}{\insrsid12330816 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 GLOUCESTERSHIRE. The main scribe of Great Domesday wrote the running title 
}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 GLOWECEST'SCIRE}{\cf1\insrsid791211  in vermilion capitals across the top of folio 162a,b, centred above both columns. He abbreviated it to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 GLOWEC'SCIRE }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
above folio 162c,d to folio169c,d inclusive and, with -}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VV-}{\cf1\insrsid791211  in place of -}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 W}{\cf1\insrsid791211 -, above folio 170c,d. He wrote }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 GLOWEGEST'SCIRE }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
above folio 170a,b. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 GLOWEC'SCIRE }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is the form used at the head of the List of Landholders on folio 162c (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid4397692 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 {\cf1\insrsid791211 G\tab FOR THIS SECTION, see 'Evesham K1' in the \{Appendix\} for a more detailed survey of Gloucester, updated to }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1100 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 G1\tab FACE VALUE. The opposite of payment by weight or in blanched or assayed money. See 1,14 weight note and 1,56 blanched note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab SESTERS. The sester is a measure, sometimes of liquid, as here, sometimes dry, as in 1,48; of uncertain and probably variable size (see G1 measure note), reckoned at 32 oz. for honey (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab BOROUGH'S MEASURE. A local measure; compare 'king's measure' for sesters of honey in 19,2, and WAR B5 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 36 DICKERS OF IRON. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Dicras ferri}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; in}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 dicras }{\cf1\insrsid791211 has probably been altered from }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 dacras}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , the first part of the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 a }{\cf1\insrsid791211 having been scratched out; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 dacra vel dacrum }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is the form given in Du Cange, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Glossarium}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . A dicker is a measure by ten or multiples of it, a customary unit of exchange. See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Fleta}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, ii. chapter 12, referring to dickers of skins, pairs of gloves and horseshoes (a dicker of the last mentioned being 20 shoes). Three hundred and sixty lumps of iron could be the meaning here, or }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ferri }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
could be short for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ferri equorum }{\cf1\insrsid791211 'horseshoes', the amount of them being sufficient for 90 horses. Compare the 20 horseshoes (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ferra}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 as a render in 78,14, and 120 horseshoes (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ferra}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
under the customary dues of the city of Hereford (HEF C8). The iron was probably mined in the Forest of Dean (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab DRAWN IRON RODS. The Latin is }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 uirgas ferreas ductiles}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ;}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 molten iron was drawn out into r
ods which were cut and hammered to produce nails (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HALL. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Aula}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ;}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 the house in which the owner or lord of an estate lived. This royal hall is also mentioned incidentally in WOR 1,7 (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab "ORA". An "ora"}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 was literally an ounce; a unit of currency still
 in use in Scandinavia. It was reckoned at either 16d or 20d. 16d was the normal rate. The 20d rate was primarily a unit of account, found on estates in the king's hands, and was payment 'at face value'. For every 16d due in revenue, 20d was collected, th
e result being equivalent to a payment in 'blanched' or assayed money (see 1,58). See Harvey, 'Royal Revenue and Domesday Terminology'. On blanching, see 1,56 blanched note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THE KING HAS ... MINT. In the manuscript }{\i\f703\cf1\insrsid791211 \'f9 }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 vero}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 not usually translated in 
this series, but see WOR 2,27 so note) is interlined above and between }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 moneta }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 h't }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 G2\tab 
BALDWIN ^[SON OF HERLEWIN]^. See 1,51 Baldwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 G3\tab BISHOP OSBERN.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 Of Exeter; see GLS 5 Osbern note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 G4\tab GEOFFREY DE MANDEVILLE. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Perhaps from Mandeville in the d\'e9partement of Eure, France; see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, p. 96. He was lord of Pleshey and ancestor of the Earls of Essex (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab PAID 6s 8d. Domesday uses the old English currency system which lasted for a thousand years until 1971. The pound contained 20 shillings, each of 12 pence, abbreviated as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 \'a3}{\cf1\insrsid791211 (}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ibrae}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ), }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 s}{\cf1\insrsid791211 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 olidi}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ) and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 d}{\cf1\insrsid791211 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 enarii}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
). Domesday often expresses sums above a shilling in pence (as 30d here) and above a pound in shillings (for example, 40s in S1) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab WILLIAM [SON OF] BADERON. As in GLS 32; }{\i\insrsid791211 filius }{\insrsid791211 ('son') was no doubt omitted in error (as also in HEF 1,8), such details often being interlineations (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab WILLIAM THE SCRIBE.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 scriba}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Probably the same man as the William }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 scriptor }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
who, with Humphrey and Osbern, was given half of Monmouth Castle by Earl William, according to the Book of Llan D\'e2v}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (Evans, pp. 277-78); see HEF 1,48 Monmouth note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab 
BERNER <OF GLOUCESTER>. Individuals named Berner held two fiefs and the name also occurs as a 1086 tenant on n
ineteen other holdings in Domesday Book, probably representing six individuals of whom the burgess was one, this isolated urban property probably being his single possession. See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid791211 Domesday People}{\insrsid791211 
, p. 167 (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab DURAND THE SHERIFF. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Sheriff 
of Gloucestershire in 1086; see GLS 53 Durand note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab WIDARD <OF FARLOW>. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
ROBERT HIS OFFICER. Probably the same man as Robert the bursar: Taylor, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 127. On the duties of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ministri regis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 see Morris, 'Office of Sheriff',}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 pp. 157-58 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ON THE DAY HE WAS ALIVE AND DEAD. 5th January 1066. This is the only occurrence in Domesday Gloucestershire of this phrase; it is a standard formula in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Liber Exoniensis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 (Exon) usually translated 'in 1066', corresponding to the formula }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Tempore Regis Edwardi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('before 1066') in Great Domesday (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab EARL WILLIAM. William son of Osbern (William Fitz Osbern), brother of Bishop Osbern of Exeter, palatine earl of Hereford from 1067 to his death in battle abr
oad in 1071. He was most probably also palatine earl of Gloucestershire and perhaps wielded extra powers in Worcestershire; see Wightman, 'Palatine Earldom of William Fitz Osbern'. He was responsible, with Walter of Lacy and others, for defending the bord
er against the South Welsh and was joint 'regent' with Odo, Bishop of Bayeux, during King William's absence in 1067. He was married to Adeline, sister of Ralph of Tosny (see GLS 45). For further details of Earl William, see HEF \{
Introduction: The Welsh Border: History\} (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THE CASTLE. Gloucester Castle; the site is now built over, but Castle Meads (SO 825185) preserves the name (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 S1\tab CASTLE OF CHEPSTOW. The castle lies at ST533940. The name Chepstow, from Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ceap-stow}{\cf1\insrsid791211  ('market place') replac
ed Strigoil as the name of the town in the early fourteenth century: Charles, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Non-Celtic Place-Names in Wales}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 243; }{\insrsid791211 Ekwall, }{\i\insrsid791211 Dictionary of English Place-Names}{
\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211  under Chepstow. Strigoil, probably from Welsh }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 istrad-gwy}{\cf1\insrsid791211  ('valley of the Wye') continued as the name of the lordship and manor (see W16) into the early modern period (JSM).}
{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab SHIPS GOING INTO THE WOODLAND. Into the steeply wooded valley of the Wye past the castle (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
EARL ROGER. Also called Roger of Breteuil; son of William son of Osbern, and Earl of Hereford from 1071. In 1075 he conspired with his brother-in-law Ralph, Earl of Norfolk, against the king, was imprisoned and his lands forfeited in 1076 (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab RALPH OF LIMESY. Lim\'e9sy is in the d\'e9partement of Seine-Maritime, France.}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 S2\tab THE PAYMENTS OF CAERLEON. Compare 'the castlery of Caerleon' in HEF 14,1. It was the later demesne of Caerleon in Caerleon and the land at Pwllpan in Christchurch later granted to Llantarnam Abbey (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 7 FISHERIES IN THE WYE AND THE USK. They can be identified from later records: five were in the Usk, two in the Wye (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 W1\tab DAIRY FARMS. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Harduices }{\cf1\insrsid791211 from Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 heord}{\cf1\insrsid791211 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 e}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 wic }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ('herdsman's farm'). It is glossed 'sheep farm' in }{\insrsid791211 Ekwall, }{\i\insrsid791211 Dictionary of English Place-Names}{\insrsid791211 , under }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Hardwick, although }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 wic }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 in English place-names often indicates a dairy farm (}{\insrsid791211 Ekwall, }{\i\insrsid791211 Dictionary of English Place-Names}{\insrsid791211 , under }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 wic}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab LLANVAIR [DISCOED].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Domesday }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Lamecare }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is almost certainly Llanvair Discoed; all three properties were later part of Strigoil lordship (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HALF-VILLAGERS. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Villani dimidii}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 38 half-villagers occur in four manors in Domesday Gloucestershire (W1;15. 41,5. 67,4). They were probably men who held half the normal holding of the a
verage villager in the locality (see 67,1 Ampney note). However, it is possible that their land and services were divided between two lords. In SHR 2,2 half-villagers are contrasted with 'whole' villagers: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
iiii. uill'i. integri 7 vi. dimidii }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ROGER OF IVRY. Styled }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pincerna }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('butler') by 1068 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
i. no. 23); by 1069 }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 (Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. xxvii). He may also have been sheriff of Gloucestershire some time after 1066: Taylor, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 130. See GLS 41 Roger note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 W2\tab UNDER WASWIC THE REEVE THERE ARE 13}{\cf1\insrsid791211  VILLAGES. According to the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Geography of Midland England}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 54, this was the old Welsh land}{\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 system, whereby land was divided on the basis of villages; each group is here recorded under its reeve. The four groups of villages under four Welsh reeves were the four commotes of Brynbuga (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 alias }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 Usk, including the later separate lordship of Trelleck), Edlogan (including the later separate lordship of Tregrug), Is Coed (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 alias }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Caldicot) and Libennith, together constituting the Welsh cantref of Gwent Is Coed and the Norman lordship of Netherwent. Brynbuga commote comprised the later parishes of Cwmcarvan, Kemeys Commander, Kilgwrrwg, Llanbadoc, Llandenny, Llandogo, Llangeview, L
langovan, Llangwm, Llanishen, Llanlowell (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 alias }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Llanllywel), Llansoy, Llantrisant, Llanvihangel Pontymoel, Llanvihangel Tormynydd, Mitchel Troy, Penallt, Pen-y-clawdd, Raglan, Trelleck, Trostrey, Usk and Wolvesnewton. Edlogan commote comprised the later par
ishes of Llanddewi Fach, Llanfrechfa, Llangattock (including Caerleon), Llangybi, Llanhennock, Llantarnam, Panteg and Tredunnock. Is Coed commote comprised the later parishes of Caerwent, Caldicot, Chepstow, Dinham, Itton, Llanmartin, Llanvair Discoed, Ma
t
hern, Penhow, Penterry, Portskewett, St Arvans, St Brides Netherwent, Shirenewton and Tintern. Libennith commote comprised the later parishes of Bishton, Christchurch, Goldcliff, Ifton, Kemeys Inferior, Langstone, Llandevenny, Llanfihangel Rogiet, Llanwer
n, Magor, Nash, Redwick, Rogiet, Undy, Whitson and Wilcrick. In all, the four commotes contained 62 parishes (Richards }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Welsh Admini\-strative and Territorial Units}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, pp. 63, 95, 144, 216, 218, 229, 277, 297), equivalent to the 54 inhabited villages of W2 and the seven Welsh villages of W19. Three out of the four reeves (Elmwy, Iudhael and Waswic) appear as witnesses to a charter of 1071-75 in the Book of Llan D\'e2
v (Evans,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 p. 274), Elmwy and Iudhael to a charter there of Caradoc ap Gruffydd (Evans,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 p. 273) and I
udhael alone appears also there in a charter of Gruffydd ap Llywelyn who died in 1063 (Evans,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 p. 270); hence at least one of these three had been in office before the Norman Conquest (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab KING CARADOC. Caradoc ap Gryffydd of Glamorgan and Wentloog (Gwyn
llwg), who died in 1081. In 1065 he led an expedition into Gwent and destroyed a royal hunting-lodge being built by Earl Harold at Portskewett (Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, manuscripts C and D under the year}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
1065). The villages were perhaps destroyed at the same time; see Freeman, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 History of the Norman Conquest}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , ii. pp. 485-86, but see Ellis, }{\i\insrsid791211 General Introduction to Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 ,
}{\cf1\insrsid791211  i. p. 321 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 41 COWS. The Latin is }{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid791211 Uacc\'e2s}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; the scribe appears to have been unsure whether to use the singular (}{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid791211 uacc\'e2 }{\cf1\insrsid791211 =}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  uaccam}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 or the plural (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 uaccas}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 after }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xli}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ;}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 the line over the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 a }{\cf1\insrsid791211 may have been written later. For the use of the singular with }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xxi}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xxxi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 etc., see 1,7 villagers note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 W3\tab WALTER THE BOWMAN. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See GLS 58 Walter note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab PAYS. An example of waste land having a value, albeit small; compare HEF 6,1 waste note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ONE WASTE LAND. Whitson, held with Langstone (see W9 carucates note) by the Blewitts who had succeeded Walter the bowman at Ruddle (58,2-3) by 1096 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 W4\tab ABRAHAM THE PRIEST. Archdeacon of Gwent (Lloyd, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 History of Wales}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , ii. p. 367); his two villages were probably Llanddewi Fach and Llandogo, later held by the Bishop and chapter of Llandaff (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
KING GRUFFYDD. The two possible identifications are (1) Gruffydd ap Maredudd, son of the ruler of Deheu
barth who died in 1071. His father's Welsh lands were held first by Rhys ab Owain (until 1078), then passed to Rhys ap Tewdwr. Gruffydd succeeded, however, to his father's English estates, appearing as a landholder in Domesday Herefordshire (HEF 29,1. 31,
1-7. He may be the same as the Gruffydd found in HEF 10,50 and the Gruffydd }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 puer }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
('Boy') in HEF 1,34-35). He was killed in 1091 trying to secure his father's throne. Nelson strongly supports this first identification. That this is the Gruffydd intended is g
iven some support by the fact that in Herefordshire the Braose family succeeded to Gruffydd's lands, hence Gruffydd's villages, apart from those held by Abraham the priest, probably comprised the commote of Teirtref (the later lordship of Three Castles), 
c
onfirmed to William de Braose in 1205. All the other Braose lordships in Wales originated in conquests from the Welsh after 1086, but Teirtref was certainly in Norman hands by 1074, when Llangua Priory was founded. The commote of Teirtref contained four l
ater parishes: Grosmont, Llangua, Llantilio Crossenny and Skenfrith. On the other hand, there is no evidence that Gruffydd was ever a king, whereas Domesday clearly styles this man }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Grifin regis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Moreover, the arrangement is attributed to Earl William, but G
ruffydd could not have succeeded to his father's lands before 1071, by which date Earl William was already abroad fighting (see G4 William note). (2) Gruffydd ap Llywelyn, King of Gwynedd and Powys, then of Deheubarth and much of south Wales. He seems to 
have come to terms with the Norman conquerors about 1058 (see HEF \{Introduction: The Welsh Border: History\}
and the customary dues here mentioned may have been part of the arrangements. Although he died in 1063 it is not impossible that this payment, now in other}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
hands, continued to be known as 'King Gruffydd's customary dues'. Lloyd, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 History of Wales}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , ii. p. 367, appears to support this identification (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 W5\tab 1 VILLAGE. Taylor, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 102, 214, 216, identified this place as
 Llanmartin, 'St Martin's church', and though most of this parish was later recorded as a lay holding of Strigoil lordship (W16), part was included in the neighbouring episcopal manor of Bishton (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ALE. Compare CHS FT3,7 and CON 2,12 where barrels of ale are mentioned as a payment (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 W6\tab 1 CARUCATE OF LAND ... 1 CARUCATE. }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Carucata }{\cf1\insrsid791211 here and below is probably not the carucate of the former Danish areas which is the same as the hide (see 1,1 hides note), but the equivalent of 'land for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 n }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
ploughs' (see DOR 2,6 carucates note). On many occasions in the south-west counties the term }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 carucatae terrae }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Liber Exoniensis}{\cf1\insrsid791211  corresponds to }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 terra est }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ...}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  car' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in Great Domesday (see SOM 1,8 carucates note). This area of Wales was a new acquisition
 of the Normans and had not yet been assessed in hides, hence the unusual measure. In Domesday Herefordshire there is a distinction between the newly-conquered lands assessed still in carucates, and the older acquisitions measured in hides (JSM).}{
\insrsid791211 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab Taylor, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, pp. 102, 214, 216, identified these places as Llanfihangel Rogiet, 'St Michael's church', and Llandevaud. Since the latter name means 'St Tavauc's church', not 'St David's church', this identification must be changed to
 Dewstow, 'St Dewy's holy place' (Charles, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Non-Celtic Place-Names in Wales}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, p. 242), which remained an episcopal manor until 1650. The former place must be Llanfihangel Rogiet, the only place in Lower Gwent with a church dedicated to St Michael, though thi
s was later part of the manor of Caldicot (W15) and did not remain in ecclesiastical possession (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
SAINTS. That is, the churches of St Michael and St Dewy (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 W7\tab \'bd}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 CARUCATE. This probably represents Maesgwenith, which was later absorbed into the}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 main manor of Caerwent (W12) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab 
AFTER THIS ENTRY there is a gap of about a line. There are similar gaps in the first pages of several counties and it would seem that information was added here as it came to hand (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 W8\tab FROM PASTURAGE COME 66 PIGS. This is a due for the right of pasturing; sometimes paid in kind, sometimes commuted to money. Both methods of payment seem to be mentioned here. The Latin verb }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 exire }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 is here used in the sense of its derivative noun }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 exitus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('payment', 'revenue'); compare 1,12 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ALL THESE PAY ... \'a3
55. The total payments, past and present, presumably refer to W1-8 inclusive. The sum of itemized payments is \'a316 14s 4d, together with 1 pig and 1 sester of honey not otherwise valued, if Roger of Ivry's valuation in W1 is accepted. Perhaps \'a340 (}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xl lib'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and \'a355 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 lv lib'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 both result from earlier miscopying of \'a315 (}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xv lib'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ); otherwise the high totals must include the lands in W4-7 later exempted from payment (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 W9\tab 2 CARUCATES. This holding can
 be identified as Langstone, the main Welsh manor of the Blewitts who had succeeded Walter the bowman by 1096 (see W3 land note) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
SLAVES. The percentage of slaves to other categories of population is higher in Gloucestershire than in any other single Domesday county, though Cornwall comes a close second (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab VALUE. Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 valet }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 valebat}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 valuit}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, past tenses) normally means the sums due to lords from their lands (see, for example, HEF 24,13). The Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 reddit}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 reddidit}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , has a similar meaning and the
 two verbs are often interchangeable; see SOM \{Introduction: Related or 'Satellite' Texts\} and DOR 1,7 value note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 W10\tab GERARD [* THE CHAMBERLAIN *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Perhaps Gerard the chamberlain, as elsewhere in Domesday; if so, the land was at Nash}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and Magor, part
s of which were later held by the Chamberlain family (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 W11\tab OWS THE KING'S REEVE. Perhaps the previous Welsh ruler of Gwent, Owen }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Wan }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('the}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
weak'), who was conquered by Earl William. His land was probably Porton, 'the portreeve's farm' (Charles, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Non-Celtic Place-Names in Wales}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 256) which later was absorbed into the manor of Redwick (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab DAGOBERT'S LAND. This may well be the rest of Redwick manor (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 W12\tab CAERWENT.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  This manor later absorbed Maesgwenith (W7) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 W13\tab 5 CARUCATES. Quite possibly the manors of Bishton and Mathern, episcopal properties}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 both before and after 1086 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 W14\tab 
2 CARUCATES. Rogerstone ('Roger's farm') in St Arvans (Charles, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Non-Celtic Place-Names in Wales}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 255). Roger's son, Roger (II) of Berkeley, founded Kingswood 
Abbey, a daughter house of Tintern Abbey, to which Rogerstone belonged (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab CHEPSTOW. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See S1 Chepstow note (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 W15\tab CALDICOT. It included Shirenewton, 'the sheriff's new farm' (Charles, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Non-Celtic Place-Names in Wales}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 255), named after Durand the sheriff (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THEY ALL HAVE 12 PLOUGHS. That is, 12 ploughs between them, not 12 ploughs each. Compare the common Domesday phrase }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 inter omnes }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (7,2. 12,5 etc.) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 W16\tab 
WILLIAM OF EU. He was the current holder of the Holding of Chepstow, which had been held previously by Ralph of Lim\'e9sy from Earl William and his son Roger (compare S1 and later in the present entry): }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Complete Peerage}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , v. p. 153 note e (JSM)}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
50 CARUCATES ... 32 CARUCATES. The difference between the 50 carucates transferred to Ralph of Lim\'e9
sy and the 32 carucates held by William of Eu may be accounted for by the 17 carucates 'between the Usk and the Wye' held in 1086 by "Turstin" son of Rolf (see W18 ploughs note). William of Eu's land in lordship probably comprised the later demesnes of St
rigoil manor at Hardwick (in Chepstow), Llandogo, Llanvaches, Mounton, Penterry and Porthcasseg (in St Arvans), whilst the 2 mills were probably at Pwllmeyric (in Mathern), and the lands of his men were at Crick, Itton, Llanvaches, Moynes Court (in Mather
n), St Arvans, St Wormets (in Howick?) and Sudbrook (in Portskewett) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab AS IS DONE IN NORMANDY. Whatever the origin of the carucate (see Ellis, }{\i\insrsid791211 General Introduction to Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211  i. p. 150), the Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
sicut fit in Normannia }{\cf1\insrsid791211 cannot explain }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 carucatas }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
(that is, 'carucates measured as in Normandy'), but must refer to the manner of the grant, either that grants of this size were common in Normandy or that one baron could grant to another there. See W16 carucates note and G 4 William note on Earl
 William's powers (JSM). [Mr Moore noted also the possibility that the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 fit }{\cf1\insrsid791211 may be a mistake for }{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid791211 s\'eet = sint}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, whence 'such as they (the carucates) are in Normandy' (JMcND)]}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab OTHERS WHO TRANSFERRED [THE LAND]. Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 alii liberatores}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 liberator }{\cf1\insrsid791211 from Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 libero }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
(Modern French }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 livrer}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in the sense of 'hand over', 'transfer', 'deliver'. The men will have given Ralph formal seizin of the land. Compare HUN Dl;25 (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 W17\tab CHEPSTOW.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See S1 Chepstow note(JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab LAND. Wallstone ('Walter's farm') in the parish of Mathern and St Pierre (Charles, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Non-Celtic Place-Names in Wales}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, p. 250), named after Roger of Lacy's father Walter, who died in 1085 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 W18\tab 17 PLOUGHS. The Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 carucas}{\cf1\insrsid791211  is undoubtedly a mistake for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 carucatas }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('carucates'); the scribe may have wrongly extended }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 car' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in the original return, which would also explain the omission of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 terrae }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('of land') which usually succeeds }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 carucatae }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
(as in W16 etc.). It is unusual for the men's ploughs to be stated here, rather than in the second paragraph after the number of 'villagers' has been given (as, for example, in 1,9). See 'Evesham K400' (in the \{Appendix\}) where "Turstin" has '11 \'bd
 carucates between the Usk and the Wye' (i.e. 17 carucates less the 5 \'bd claimed and presuma
bly acquired by the king's reeves). It is probable that one of the figures for carucates in W16;18 is wrong; for example the initial assessment of the lands of "Turstin" at 17 carucates could be corrected to 18 carucates since this is the exact amount by 
which Ralph of Lim\'e9
sy's original holding of 1066-1070 had been reduced to the 32 carucates held by William of Eu in 1086 (W16). A further adjustment would then be needed in the figures for the lordship or men's carucates. A simpler correction is to amend th
e assessment of William of Eu's holding to 33 carucates (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 4 \'bd ARE IN LORDSHIP. Probably Magor, the second most valuable of the Marshal family Welsh manors in the mid-thirteenth century, and part of the adjacent manors of Rogiet and Undy (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab THE OTHERS ARE THE MEN'S}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
. His men's lands certainly included Castell Coch (in Magor), Ifton, Kemeys Inferior, Llandevenny, Milton (in Christchurch), part of Rogiet, Salisbury (in Magor), St Brides Netherwent, part of Undy, and Wilcrick, probably also Hendrew (i
n Kemeys Inferior), Llanmartin, Llanwern and Penhow (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab "TURSTIN" }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ... 6 CARUCATES ... BEYOND THE USK. These, together with his '8 carucates of land in the castlery of Caerleon' (HEF 14,1 ), comprised Llangattock, Llanhennock, Llantarnam, Malpas and Tredunnock (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 4 PLOUGHS. The Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 car' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is perhaps 'carucates' (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 W19\tab ALFRED OF `SPAIN'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Hispan}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 iensis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 here; the byname also occurs as }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 de }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 H}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ispania}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 elsewhere in Domesday. He is from Epaignes in the d\'e9partement of Eure, France: Tengvik, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 92, 134. The Latin}{\insrsid791211  }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Hispaniensis }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is a kind of word-play. He held land also in Dorset, Devon, Somerset, Wiltshire}{
\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and Herefordshire (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 2 CARUCATES. Probably at Goldcliff and Nash (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 7 VILLAGES. In addition to Goldcliff and Nash; they i
ncluded Christchurch and its}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 hamlets of Coldra, Liswerry, Pwllpan and Traston, most of which were granted by Alfred's}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
daughter Isabel and her husband Robert de Chandos to their new foundation of Goldcliff}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Priory (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THESE PAY. In the manuscript }{\i\f703\cf1\insrsid791211 H\'ea }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is correctly reproduced by Farley as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Hae}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; the diphthong mark}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
under the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 e }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is not visible in the Ordnance Survey facsimile, however (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 B1\tab BOROUGH OF WINCHCOMBE. There is an updated and considerably fuller survey of Winchcombe Borough in 'Evesham K116'; see the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
EARL HAROLD. Son of Earl Godwin and brother of Queen Edith; King of England from 6th January to 14th October 1066; William the Conqueror did not recognize his title to the crown, hence the use in Domesday of 'Earl' instead of 'Kin
g'. He was Earl of East Anglia (1045), received half of Swein's earldom (1046), was Earl of the West Saxons on his father's death in 1053 and Earl of Hereford (1058) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THE THIRD PENNY. A third of the borough's total revenues, the remaining two-thirds
 going to the king. See STS B12 and CHS C2;22 for examples of this division of a borough's revenues between the king and the earl. The third penny sometimes went to the sheriff instead of to the earl (for example, in SHR C12 and DEV B1) and sometimes to a
n abbey (as in WIL 9,1). This third penny of the borough is not to be confused with the third penny of the pleas of a county (as in WAR 1,6 and WAR 1,6 penny note) or of a hundred (see HEF 19,2 and HEF 19,2 penny note). See Round, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Geoffrey de Mandeville}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 pp. 287-96; Round, 'Tertius Denarius' (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HUNDRED OF THIS TOWN. The reference to this is early and important. The hundred may well have been co-extensive with the county of Winchcombe, mentioned in Hemming (Hearne, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Hemingi}{\cf1\insrsid791211  }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Chartularium}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 280); see Taylor, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 43-45; and 12,10 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THE THREE ADJOINING HUNDREDS. }{\insrsid791211 "Celfledetorn"}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , Kiftsgate and 'Witley', possibly fragments of a larger pre-Conquest unit, which by the thirteenth century had been reunited in one large hund
red of Kiftsgate (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 L\tab NOTES concerning major landholders are to be found at the head of their individual chapters.}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Notes referring to other individuals are under their first occurrence in the text (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 L49\tab RICHARD THE COMMISSIONER. Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 legatus}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see 1,63 }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 legatis regis }{\cf1\insrsid791211 'to the king's}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Commissioners', that is of the Domesday survey. Richard's name is not given in the list of Domesday}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Commissioners in 'Worcester F' ((Hearne, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Hemingi}{\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Chartularium}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 288; see WOR \{Appendix\}), though this may only be}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 because, if he was a Commissioner, it was of a different area (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1\tab LAND OF THE KING. The scribe omitted the red }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 I }{\cf1\insrsid791211 beside the chapter heading; in a great many counties in Domesday the initial chapter numbers are omitted, probably in error (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,1\tab [IN CHELTENHAM HUNDRED]. The insertion of the hundredal rubric is justified by the mention of the hundred, which was attached to the Cheltenham manor, in other entries (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 8 \'bd HIDES. The total assessment of Cheltenham was 10 hides (8 \'bd + l \'bd ). Reinbald's 1 \'bd 
hides were the glebe land of St Mary's, the original parish church of Cheltenham. Reinbald was Reinbald the priest whose lands, including the Cheltenham glebe, were granted to Cirencester Abbey in 1133; See GLS 26 Reinbald note (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 

\par \tab \tab }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The hide was a unit
 of land measurement, either of productivity, of extent or of tax liability, and contained 4 virgates. Administrators attempted to standardize the hide at 120 acres, but incomplete revision and special local reductions left hides of widely differing exten
ts in different areas. See JRM in SUS \{Introduction: The Hide\}. See also 6,3 and 6,3 acres note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab REINBALD [* THE PRIEST *] }{\cf1\insrsid791211 HOLDS THEM. The 1 \'bd hides; Latin uses the singular (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 eam}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 with 1 \'bd (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 16s FOR BREAD. For the dogs; an example of a food rent being commuted by 1086. A clear example of commutation is to be found in HEF 1,49: '[the men] ... give ... 20s for the sheep which they used to give' (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab AFTER THIS ENTRY there is a gap of about two lines before 1,2; see W7 entry note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,2\tab [IN 'DUDSTONE' HUNDRED]. The insertion of the hundredal rubric is justified by the location of '(Abbots) Barton' and 'Morwents (End)' within this hundred in 10,1 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab `[KINGS] BARTON'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ii. p. 136 (JSM). [For a \'bd hide lyin
g in Droitwich but attached to this manor, see WOR 1,7. 7,1 and 'Evesham Q29' in WOR \{Appendix\}].}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 2 FREE MEN HOLD 2 HIDES. These can be identified from later evidence as 2 carucates}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 forming the lordship of Matson (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THEY CANNOT SEPARATE ... MANOR. See 1,16 turn note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ARCHBISHOP ALDRED. Bishop of Worcester 1047-62. He held that see with Hereford}{\insrsid791211  1}{\cf1\insrsid791211 056-1060 and with the archbishopric of York from 1061-1062. He held York alone from}{\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 1062 until his death in 1069. He crowned William the Conqueror and Queen Matilda (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab BRAWN. In Sandhurst; it is partly duplicated by another entry (64,1) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN THE SHERIFF. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Aluui}{\cf1\insrsid791211  here and in 1,13; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Aluuinus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in 34,8;12. The oblique inflexions}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 indicate }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Alwin}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The nominative form }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Aluui }{\cf1\insrsid791211 must therefore be regarded as misinterpretation}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
or miscopying of an abbreviation (from which a nunnation mark has been omitted), for example:}{\insrsid791211  }{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid791211 Aluu\'ee}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Aluui}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Alwin'}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See SOM 35,24 Alwy note on Alwy/Alwin son of Banna,}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 for a similar case (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab See also 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab UPTON [ST LEONARDS]. Humphrey's hide here was represented in the early thirteenth century by a carucate held in sergeantry by the Grave family, after whom it was later named 'Grove Court'; see }{\i\insrsid791211 Plac
e-Names of Gloucestershire}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\insrsid791211  }{\insrsid791211 ii. p. 171. Humphrey was probably Humphrey of Maidenhill; compare 70,1 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab HUMPHREY [* OF MAIDENHILL *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}
{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN ^[THE SHERIFF]^. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab MURRELLS [END].}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 In Hartpury; it was known down to the eighteenth century as Morwents Place (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab NIGEL THE DOCTOR. One of King William's doctors, and possibly also doctor to Earl}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Roger of Shrewsbury (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Monasticon Anglicanum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. p. 750), but see 
}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Shropshire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. 290 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,3\tab THE ROYAL MANOR OF HARESFIELD. This formed the later tithing of Harescombe, the eastern part of Haresfield parish: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. p. 190 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THIS LAND ANSWERED FOR 2 HIDES. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Se defendebat pro }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is a common phrase in other Domesday counties (for example, in Suss
ex, Buckinghamshire, Bedfordshire, Hertfordshire), meaning the same as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 geldebat pro }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('it paid tax for'). It also occurs in Gloucestershire in 11,13 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab MEADOW SUFFICIENT FOR THE PLOUGHS. Sufficient meadow for the grazing of the oxen in the plough-teams
 (see 'meadow for the oxen' in WOR 2,16, and see HEF 7,3 meadow note). Normally there were eight oxen to a plough-team, but see WIL 28,10 oxen note and HEF 1,50 oxen note. In several Domesday counties (for example, in Buckinghamshire, Bedfordshire, Middle
sex) meadow was frequently measured in terms of the plough-teams it would support (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,4\tab MEADOWS FOR THE PLOUGHS. See 1,3 meadow note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,6\tab \'bd HIDE ... EXEMPT. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Quietam}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , commonly in Domesday meaning 'immune from dues or service' (see HEF 1,44), 'free
 from tax' (see 1,24 and 11,4). See WOR 2,74 discharged note for a slightly different meaning (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab TO A COOK OF HIS, [* AVENEL *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 Earl William's cook is named as Avenel the cook in a confirmation charter of 1171; see Walker 'Charters of the Earldom of 
Hereford 1095-1201', p. 54. His property was in Quedgeley, probably Netheridge which his descendants held until the thirteenth century, and which, unlike the rest of Quedgeley, remained in 'Dudstone' Hundred; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire
}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. pp. 119, 216, 218-19 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,7\tab 
5 HIDES. These formed the main manor of Cirencester, centred on Barton Farm, and are located in Cirencester itself in 'Evesham K8' (in the \{Appendix\}) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 31 VILLAGERS. The Latin is }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xxxi. uill}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 anu}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 m}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
The singular occurs regularly in Domesday with 21, 31 etc.; but see 1,24 and 4,1, and W2 cows note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THE QUEEN HAD THE SHEEP'S WOOL. Compare SUR 1,8 (Kingston), where Humphrey the chamberlain had a villager who was in charge of collecting the queen's wool. According to Taylor, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 69-70, this was a payment similar to the mark of gold the queen was entitled to receive from royal manors worth more than \'a3100 a year (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,8\tab 2 HIDES. Identifiable from later evidence as Perry Moor; not Wiggold (as Taylor, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, p. 163), which was divided between the neighbouring manors of Siddington St Mary (66,5) and Stratton (39,17) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,9\tab 36 HIDES. These were probably divided as follows: Bitton 16 hi
des, Wapley 8 hides, Winterbourne 12 hides. The Wapley member was centred on Codrington Court in Wapley and Codrington, and absorbed another hide at Codrington (43,1) in 1230 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
ONE NIGHT'S REVENUE. Many royal manors, especially in the south-west, had
 to pay this revenue which took the place of the normal tax payment. Originally this meant the amount of food needed to support the king and his household for one night, though by the eleventh century these food rents were generally commuted. \'a3
80 is a probable figure before 1066, and \'a3100 after, for one night's revenue; see Poole,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  Exchequer in the Twelfth Century}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
p. 29. From this entry and 1,11;13 it would seem that, as in Dorset, these rents were not commuted in the case of Gloucestershire (but see 1,21 m
ark note). Sometimes a manor combined with one or more others to provide this rent, as would seem to be the case in 1,13. Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 firma }{\cf1\insrsid791211 here = Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 feorm}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, 'a food rent'; see the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Oxford English Dictionary}{\cf1\insrsid791211  under farm (i) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 1,10\tab [LOWER] SLAUGHTER.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  I
dentified as such in }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 45, 129, 145-46 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 1 MARK OF SILVER. 13s 4d (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 5s FOR DOGS. Probably instead of loaves of bread for the dogs, as 1,7 etc.; see 1,1 bread note) (JSM )}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab SHERIFF PAID ... WISHED. Or possibly, reading }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 uicecom' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 as abbreviating the dative }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 uicecomiti }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
and the verbs as plural, 'they paid the sheriff what they wished from this manor'. An almost identical phrase, equally ambiguous, occurs in 1,53 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,11\tab [IN WE
STBURY HUNDRED]. The insertion of the hundredal rubric is justified by the mention of the hundred, which was attached to Westbury manor, in other entries. In 1086 Clifton-on-Teme, Edvin Loach and Kyre Parva and Kyre Wyard were in Worcestershire; Kingstone
 in Weston-under-Penyard was in Herefordshire (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 6 HIDES IN KYRE. These were held by the Bishop of Hereford (2 hides: WOR 3,2)}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and Osbern son of Richard (4 hides: WOR 19,4;7) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab IN CLIFTON[-ON-TEME] 10 HIDES. Osbern son of Richard held 3 hides in Clifton-on-Teme, 1 \'bd
 hides in Stanford-on-Teme, 1 hide in Shelsley, 1 hide in Homme Castle and 3 hides in Lower Sapey, recorded in WOR 19,3;5-6;8-9 respectively. The remaining \'bd hide of the 10 was held by the Abbey of Cormeilles at Tenbury Wells (WOR 6,1) (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab IN NEWENT AND KINGSTONE 8 HIDES. The Abbey of Cormeilles' 6 hides at Newent}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 are recorded in detail in 16,1, and its 2 hides at Kingstone in HEF 3,1 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab EDVIN [LOACH] }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1 HIDE. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ladeuent}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ;}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 the manuscript has initial }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 l}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ;}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Farley misprinted }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 L}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 'Evesham K10' also has }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 l }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (see \{Appendix\}).}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Osbern son of Richard's hide here is recorded in WOR 19,11 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ABBOT OF CORMEILLES. Or 'Abbey', as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 abb' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 can abbreviate both }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 abbas }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('abbot') and}{\insrsid791211  }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 abbatia }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ('abbey'), as well as, occasionally, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 abbatissa }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('abbess'). The same form }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 abb' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 occurs}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
in 'Evesham K10'; see the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab OSBERN AND WILLIAM SONS OF RICHARD. Domesday has }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 f}{\cf1\insrsid791211  with no abbreviation sign, which might stand for the singular }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 filius}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, referring only to William ('Osbern, and William son of Richard'), although the plural }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 filii}{\cf1\insrsid791211  is more likely as Osbern was also the name of a son of Richard Scrope (see 48,3 Osbern note). 'Evesham K10' (see the 
\{Appendix\}) also has the abbreviation }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 f'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . Compare 'Evesham Q29' and note (in the \{Appendix\}). Willi
am son of Richard is not recorded in the Herefordshire or Worcestershire sections of Domesday as holding any of these lands taken from Westbury-on-Severn manor (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab FIR-WOOD. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Sapina }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 is usually translated, as here, 'fir-wood'; it may well, however, refer in this context to the whole Forest of Dean which is also mentioned in a pre-Domesday context in 37,3. However, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 sapina }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
may result from an earlier mistranscription of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Sapian }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (Lower Sapey, Worcestershire); see Birch, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Cartularium Saxonicum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , no. 240; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Na
mes of Worcestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 p. 75 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 1,12\tab [UPPER] CLOPTON. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
As Finberg and Smith have pointed out, this holding is not Longborough: Finberg, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Gloucestershire Studies}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 49; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
 }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. pp. 250-51, 254-55 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THERE WERE 8 HIDES IN EACH. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Uterque }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
can mean 'each' or 'both', either translation being as unclear as the Latin, which appears to mean that together the two places total 8 hides. See 'Evesham K17' (in the \{Appendix\}): '}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Landeb}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 er}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ge }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (Upper Clopton) with }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Mene }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (Meon), 8 hides' (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WHAT CAME FROM THIS MANOR. That is, in revenue; see W8 come note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab TWO HUNDREDS. }{\insrsid791211 "Celfledetorn"}{\cf1\insrsid791211  and 'Witley'; see B1 hundreds note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,13\tab SALT-HOUSE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Salina }{\cf1\insrsid791211 comprehends all kinds of salt-workings from coastal pans to the boilers of Worcester
shire and Cheshire, with their associated sheds and buildings. 'Salt-house' is the most comprehensive term. See WOR 1,3a brine-pits note on salt extraction (JSM)}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab PACKLOADS OF SALT. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Summis salis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The size of the packload is unknown, but in the case of salt in Cheshire (CHS S1,4) it contained 15 }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 bulliones }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('boilings'). It is used of corn several times in Domesday Worcestershire (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HALF A NIGHT'S REVENUE. See 1,9 revenue note. No other manor in Gloucestershire is mentioned as combining with Awre to pay one night's revenue (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN THE SHERIFF. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,14\tab 
BY WEIGHT. Payment in this manner avoided losses from the clipping of coins or wear, and was therefore carefully noted, as the opposite of money 'at face value' (see G1 value note and 1,56 blanched note) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,15\tab [IN BERKELEY HUNDRED]. The insertion of the hundredal rubric is based on the appearance in the twelfth century of Berkeley 'Harness' and Hundred, which was attached to Berkeley manor (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab KING EDWARD HAD 5 HIDES. Over the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 v }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in the manuscript the scribe mistakenly wrote an abbreviation mark, which usually denotes }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 virgata}{\cf1\insrsid791211 (}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 s}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ); Farley correctly omitted it (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab RIDING MEN. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Radchenistres}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . A }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 radchenistre }{\cf1\insrsid791211 was}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 similar to a }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 radman }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ('rider'); for the latter see, for instance, WOR 8,9g; see also HEF 1,4 riding note for an example of the two terms being interchangeable. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Radchenistres }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
are found mainly in the south-western Welsh marches and in Hampshire (in Gloucestershire they are found on the estates of large landholders, chiefly royal and ecclesiastical), whereas }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 radmans }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
are common in north-west Mercia up to the River Ribble. Of higher standing than villagers, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 radchenistres }{\cf1\insrsid791211 are glossed twice in Gloucestershire (here and at 19,2) as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 liberi homines }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 and in WOR 8,9b }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 liberi homines }{\cf1\insrsid791211 perform similar services to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 radmans }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
in WOR 8,10a. However, they were apparently not allowed to leave the manor (see 3,1 and compare HEF 1,4). Originally they were men who rode as messengers or as escorts for the k
ing or their lord (see WOR 2,29 and WOR 2,29 rider note), but they also worked their own holdings and those of their lords (see 1,24 and WOR 8,10a). They did not owe full military service and were equivalent to the later tenants in sergeantry. Discussion 
in Maitland, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Book and Beyond}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 57, 66, 305-308; Vinogradoff, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Society in the Eleventh Century}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211  pp. 69-71; Nelson, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Normans in South Wales}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 44-51 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 17 MEN. Burgesses: Finberg, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Gloucestershire Studies}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 64 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab CAM. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The 6 hides constituted the later manors of Billow, Lorring and Stinchcombe in Stinchcombe, which was until the seventeenth century a chapelry of Cam; the 11 hides formed the main manor of Cam (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab `CROMHALL [ABBOTS]'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Later given to St Augustine's Abbey, Bristol. See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 iii. p. 3 (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab IN TOTAL. There is a large erasure in the manuscript after }{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid791211 int' tot\'fb}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , extending two-thirds of the way along the line. It is not possible to tell what has been erase
d, or whether the scribe intended to fill in more details at a later stage (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab FREEDMEN. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Coliberti}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; former slaves. A continental term, not otherwise found in England; used in Domesday to render a native term, stated on three occasions to be (}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ge}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 bur }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (WOR 8,10a and HAM l,10;23). The }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 coliberti }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
are found mainly in the counties in Wessex and western Mercia, particularly in Wiltshire and Somerset. In Domesday they are generally listed between the slaves and villagers; in Gloucestershire, however, they occur i
n several places, though mostly with slaves after other classes of population. Some of them at least seem to have held land and ploughs (especially the latter in Gloucestershire) and paid various dues (see HEF 1,6) and in here at 8,1 two paid 34d. In Glou
cestershire they appear only on royal and ecclesiastical holdings. See Vinogradoff, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Society in the Eleventh Century}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211  pp. 468-69; Maitland, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Book and Beyond}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 36-37, 328-30; and OXF 1,6 boors note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,16\tab `CROMHALL [LYGON]'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  This remained a lay manor. See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 iii. p. 3 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab COULD TURN ... WHERE THEY WOULD. They were free to choose any lord as their patron and protector of their lands. Many holdings were 'tied' to a particular manor, as occurs in 1,2;52. 3,2 etc (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ASSAYED. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Arsas}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , that is,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
tested by fire; coin was tested for the presence of alloy; similar to blanching (see 1,14 weight note and 1,56 blanched note) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,17\tab 2 HIDES. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 .ii.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  hid'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; Farley misprinted}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  .i. hid' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,18\tab BERNARD THE PRIEST. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
His prebend can be identified from later evidence as comprising a hide in Hinton (which also contained Oldminster, the site of Berkeley nunnery) and 4 hides at 'Hinworthy' (a lost place in Slimbridge; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ii. p. 248). Both Hinton and 'Hinworthy' contain the Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 hiwan}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 ('religious community'), referring to Berkeley nunnery, secularized by Earl Godwin (compare 1,63), of which Bernard may have been the last chaplain (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,19\tab A SMALL CASTLE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Castellulum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , possibly the beginning of the present Berkeley Castle (ST6898); see Taylor, 'Berkeley Minster',}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 p. 82 (JSM).
}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,20\tab QUEEN EDITH. Wife of King Edward the Confessor, daughter of Earl Godwin (see 1,63 Godwin note). She died in 1075 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab MARSHFIELD. 14 H
IDES. Because of the prevalence of the 5-hide unit of assessment, it might at first sight look as if the scribe had mistakenly included the priest's hide among the 14 hides, when in fact there were 14 hides and the priest's hide. However, another explanat
i
on is possible. Throughout the Middle Ages there is evidence of a small manor, variously called 'West', 'Little' or 'Old' Marshfield, held from the Earls of Gloucester, which was completely independent of the main manor given by the Earl of Gloucester to 
Keynsham Abbey }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1168. This small manor could be a one-hide holding, omitted accidentally in Domesday which would bring the total assessment of Marshfield up to the normal 15 hides (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab A PRIEST HAS ONE OF THESE HIDES. Later the rectory manor held by Tewkesbury Abbey (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,21\tab [IN 'SWINESHEAD' HUNDRED]. The insertion of the hundredal rubric is justified by the inclusion within this hundred of Clifton to the west (75,1-2) and Bitton (1,9. 78,13), Hanham (60,7) and Oldland (5,1) to the east (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab `BARTON [REGIS]'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 iii. p. 94 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 6 HIDES. See 'Evesham K7' in the \{Appendix\} (JSM).
}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab AT 27s. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 .xx. }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 with }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 vii. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 interlined to correct the number to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xxvii }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WHEN ROGER ACQUIRED THIS MANOR. That is, when Roger of Berkeley acquired the collection of the manor's revenue. (See WOR 11,2.) }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Recepit }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
has here a slightly different meaning from when a landholder acquired a grant of land (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 4 SLAVES AND 13 FREEDMEN. In the accusative in error (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab BRISTOL CH
URCH. St Peter's, stated in the twelfth century to be the oldest church in Bristol, and the mother-church of Mangotsfield chapelry. The church 'with all belonging to it inside and outside the borough' (that is, including the 3 hides) 'and the tithe of all
 the lordship revenues (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 dominicorum reddituum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 of Bristol' was given to Tewkesbury Abbey before 1107: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Calendar of Charter Rolls}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , ii. p. 490. After the foundation of St James Priory as a cell of Tewkesbury }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . l140 it was incorporated, along with later local 
gifts to the abbey and priory, in the 'manor of St James'. The 3 hides comprised the major part of this manor in the Gloucester\-
shire parishes of Mangotsfield and Stapleton (excluding Ashley which was a later gift) and the Bristol out-parishes of St James and St Philip and St Jacob (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab 1 }{\cf1\insrsid791211 RIDING MAN HOLDS 1 HIDE. This was probably Ridgeway manor in Stapleton (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BISHOP G[EOFFREY] [* OF COUTANCES *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Almost certainly Geoffrey of Mowbray, Bishop of Coutances and Saint-L\'f4 (see GLS 6 bishop note), who he
ld in the area (JSM). [In Somerset, just over the River Avon from Bristol, the Bishop of Coutances held Bishopsworth (SOM 5,20-21) to which were attached 10 houses in Bristol (and two in Bath)].}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 1 MARK OF GOLD. \'a36, making \'a328 for the bishop's share. The total payment of Bristol was thus \'a3101 6s 8d which looks rather like a commuted food rent (see 1,9 revenue note) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 1,22\tab BALDWIN SON OF HERLEWIN. See 1,51 Baldwin note (JP).
}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
10 HIDES. These formed the manor of Coln Rogers given to St Peter's Abbey, Gloucester, by Roger of Gloucester in 1105; see }{\insrsid791211 the Gloucester History and Cartulary (Hart, i. pp}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 69, 123, 235-36) (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
BISHOP OF BAYEUX. Odo, half-brother of King William and elder brother of Count Robert of Mortain. He was Earl of Kent 1066/7 to 1082, t
hen 1087 to 1088. He was 'regent' during some of King William's absences abroad, notably in 1067 with Earl William of Hereford. At the time when Domesday was written he was in prison in Rouen and many of his lands (including here and in Worcestershire) we
r
e forfeited to the king. He was released by King William on his deathbed in 1087 and returned to England, but rebelled against William Rufus, was defeated in 1088 and all his lands in England taken away. He fled to Normandy and died in 1097. Bayeux is in 
the d\'e9partement of Calvados, France (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 1,23\tab HULLASEY. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
This holding was combined with 44,1 as the manor of Hullasey; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. pp. 236-40 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,24\tab [IN TEWKESBURY HUNDRED]. The insertion of the hundredal rubric is justified by the appearance of Tewkesbury Hundred from 1148 onwards, comprising the lands attached to the Domesday manor of Tewkesbury (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 45 ... IN LORDSHIP. The details given amount to 46 \'bd hides; probably the figure for Natton (3 \'bd hides) was overstated by 1 \'bd hides (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab APART FROM THE SERVICE OF THE LORD HIMSELF. Service to the king owed by the lord of the manor (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab IN THE HEAD OF THE MANOR. That is, in Tewkesbury itself, rather than in any of the}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 members mentioned below (1,24-37) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HALL. See G1 hall note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab SALT-HOUSE ... WHICH BELONGS. Or 'which belonged', }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pertin' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 abbreviating }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pertinens}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
which, though the present participle, could refer to the past in view of the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 erant }{\cf1\insrsid791211 at the}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 beginning of the sentence (compare}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  habentes }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 four lines below and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 reddentes }{\cf1\insrsid791211 seven}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 lines below). Although}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
it is not absolutely clear from the Latin whether the details of mills, fishery and salt-house}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 refer to the past, as well as the ploughs, slaves and smallholders, they probably do because}{\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 of the appearance of the fishery and salt-house in the 'present' details of Tewkesbury 14}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 lines below (JSM)}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab FIDDINGTON.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 The king's 6 hides represent the later manor of Fiddington and Natton}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 centred on Fiddington Farm; Bernard's 2 hides became the later Hall Court manor centred}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
on Fiddington Manor: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , viii. pp. 175-79 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab IN WALTON [CARDIFF] }{\cf1\insrsid791211 3 HIDES; [***]. The gap of about seven letters between these}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 two items is caused by an erasure in
 the manuscript. Farley did not always print gaps caused by}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 erasures, for example, in 19,2 the erasure between }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Brictric }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 .i.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  }
{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid791211 hid\'e2}{\cf1\insrsid791211  (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ASTON[-ON-CARRANT].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  The two holdings here cannot now be}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 distinguished from each other; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vii
i. pp. 175-79. Gerard is almost certainly Gerard the}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 chamberlain; see 1,40 Gerard note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab COURT. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Curia }{\cf1\insrsid791211 here means the same as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 aula }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('hall'); that is, the lord's house (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab QUEEN. Queen Matilda, wife of King William; died 1083 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ASTON[-ON-CARRANT]. See 1,24 Aston note}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab GERARD [* THE CHAMBERLAIN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab RALPH <OF CARDIFF>. Ralph h}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
ere and in 1,38 was probably Ralph of Cardiff, whose descendants were certainly}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 stewards of the Honour of Gloucester from the mid-twelfth century (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BERNARD [* PANCEVOLT *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,25\tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,26\tab 
THIS HEADING is lined through in red for emphasis (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,27\tab THIS ENTRY and each of the following six (1,28-33) are marked with a red marginal cross in the manuscript, the cross beside 1,27 being larger than the others, but of the same shape, not + and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 X}{
\cf1\insrsid791211  as in Farley. Such crosses, indicating land held by a church, occur in several counties and are undoubtedly contemporary with the text of Domesday (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,28\tab 2 PLOUGHS. This is a very low total for 11 
villagers and 1 riding man, since most villagers in this area had an average of at least half a plough; perhaps }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 vii }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('7') was miscopied as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ii }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
(2) during the compilation of Domesday (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 1,29\tab [LOWER] LEMINGTON. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Near Moreton-in-Marsh; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 217, 252-53 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,30\tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,31\tab 
IN FIDDINGTON 2 HIDES. Now Rectory Farm in Ashchurch: see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , viii. pp. 175-79 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,32\tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,33\tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
20 HIDES. This total is the sum of the hidages in 1,27-32; it is thus likely that the 4 \'bd hides of Stanley Pontlarge, which are additional to the 20, were exempt before 1066. The 1086 taxable hides of 1,27-32 total 18, so the exemption of tw
o out of the 3 hides of Fiddington and Natton (1,31-32) must have taken place between 1066 and 1086 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,34\tab HANLEY [CASTLE].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Geographically within Worcestershire and seemingly included in the 1200 hides of that county (see WOR \{Introduction: History\}, 
but regarded as a part of Gloucestershire both in Domesday Gloucestershire and Herefordshire, Brictric son of Algar having withdrawn it from Worcestershire and attached it to his great manor of Tewkesbury. It is duplicated in HEF 1,42 because Earl William
 
had withdrawn its revenues there and they remained there after his son Roger had forfeited his lands. The Gloucestershire and Herefordshire entries originate from different returns and there are many differences; they are tabulated in HEF 1,42 Hanley note
 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 40 VILLAGERS AND SMALLHOLDERS. The total of both classes is 40. Similarly in the next entry (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HEDGED ENCLOSURE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Haia}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , Latinized from Old English (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ge}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 haeg }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (compare Modern French }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 haie}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ); a three-sided enclosure, generally hedged, into which game were driven for capture; see WOR 18,4 }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 i haia in qua capiebantur ferae}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 In SHR 4,8,10 and SHR 6,14) 'hays' are 'for capturing roe-deer (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 capreolis capiendis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )'.}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See Ellis, }{\i\insrsid791211 
General Introduction to Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211  i. p. 114; Du Cange, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Glossarium}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , under }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 haga}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 En
glish Place-Name Elements}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , under (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ge}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 haeg}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 haga}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Such 'hays' are found frequently in the west midland shires; see HEF 2,23 enclosures note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,35\tab THESE TWO LANDS. That is, Hanley Castle and Forthamp
ton.}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,36\tab BELONGED. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 p'tin'}{
\cf1\insrsid791211  here and in 1,37 probably abbreviates the past }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pertinebant }{\cf1\insrsid791211 as in 1,34-35, rather than the present }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pertinent }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ROBERT D'OILLY HOLDS IT}{\cf1\insrsid791211  AT A REVENUE. Probably }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ad firmam }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
here means 'at farm', that is, 'for a fixed sum', but it could, as with other occurrences of the phrase, mean he holds the land and it is part of the king's revenue (compare }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 firma regis}{\cf1\insrsid791211  in 1,34) (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,37\tab 7 HIDES ... \'a3
6. The reduction in hidage and value resulted from the separation of Wincot (1,42) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab BELONGED. See 1,36 belonged note. (JSM)}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab QUEEN. Queen Matilda; compare DEV 27,1, another manor of Brictric's given by the queen to Roger of Bully (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ROGER OF BULLY. Perhaps from Bully-en-Brai in the d\'e9partement of Seine-Maritime, France; see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 78 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,38\tab THE FIRST TWO LINES of this entry are written 
into the left margin of the manuscript and the second line is written below the marginal rulings and several lines above it are compressed, probably indicating that they were filled in slightly later by the scribe (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THE ABOVE-MENTIONED 50 [EXEMPT] HIDES. These are the 20 hides of church land}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (1,27-32; see 1,33 hides note) and the 30 hides of 1,34-37. The implication is that the 30 hides}{\insrsid791211  
}{\cf1\insrsid791211 of 1,34-37 were exempt before 1066; but between 1066 and 1086 all are recorded as}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 paying some tax (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab EXEMPT AND
 FREE FROM ALL TAX AND ROYAL SERVICE. This means that all of Tewkesbury's 95 hides (the 45 in lordship and the other 50) did not pay tax before 1066 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab RALPH <OF CARDIFF>. See 1,24 Ralph note (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 1,39\tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. A great English thane wh
o held much land in the west. See 1,42 queen note (JSM).
\par \tab \tab }{\cf1\insrsid791211 He was descended from the royal house of Wessex. Many of his west-country lands passed to Queen Matilda, possibly after the fall of Exeter in 1068. }{\insrsid791211 The bulk of his lands were in Gloucestershire, wh
ere he held this massive manor of Tewkesbury. Much of his land was subsequently granted to Queen Matilda and this link allows many of his other holdings in Cornwall, Devon, Dorset and Wiltshire to be identified. His estate has been carefully reconstructed
 
by Ann Williams whose detailed and persuasive arguments need not be repeated here: Williams, 'A West-Country Magnate of the Eleventh Century', pp. 41-68. Dr Williams has also suggested that Brictric was the unnamed lord of the pre-Conquest holders of the 
manors acquired by Walter and Gotshelm of Claville in Devon (fiefs 24-25). See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 
, pp. 260-62, who excludes these and also the Brictric holdings on fiefs 24, 40, 42 and 50 from his list; he identifies the predecessor of Odo son of Gamalin as another Brictric (}{\i\insrsid791211 ibidem}{\insrsid791211 
, p. 265). Dr Williams, however, has shown that complex interrelationships between these and other fiefs make it probable that all had been held by the son of Algar (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,40\tab ASHTON[-UNDER-HILL].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  The north-eastern part of the parish, later part of the upper division of Tewkesbury Hundred; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, vi. pp. 185-86, 188, viii. pp. 243, 246 (JSM)}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab GERARD [* THE CHAMBERLAIN *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Almost certainly Gerard the chamberlain, as Gerard's land in Ashton-under-Hill was later part of Tewkesbury manor, as were the other lands held by Gerard the chamberlain; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, viii. pp. 210, 246 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,41\tab THIS ENTRY is duplicated in 19,2 wh
ere Gerard is Gerard the chamberlain (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab KEMERTON. Gerard's 8 hides represented the later manors of Upper and Nether Court:}{\insrsid791211  }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, viii. pp. 210-13, 217. Kemerton was transferred to Worcestershire in 1931 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab LET. Old Norse }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Liotr}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see }{\insrsid791211 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid791211 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211  p. 320 (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab GERARD [* THE CHAMBERLAIN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}
{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 6 PLOUGHS. The scribe wrote }{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid791211 .iiii c\'e2r }{\cf1\insrsid791211 originally, then wrote a }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 v}{\cf1\insrsid791211  to cover the first three}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
minim strokes, correcting the number to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 vi}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; Farley misprinted }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ivi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 which is not a Roman}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 numeral (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
BODDINGTON. Gerard's 3 hides were later united with his 3 hides held from Westminster}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Abbey (19,2) as Boddington manor, comprising the western part of Boddington parish}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
which was later in Tewkesbury Hundred; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 186, 238, viii. pp. 170-71, 188, 190-92 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,42\tab 
WINCOT. Almost certainly a life-grant to Reginald the chaplain out of the queen's manor of Clifford Chambers (1,37), to which it was later reunited.}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THE QUEEN GAVE. Queen Matilda, here and in 1,44: many of Brictric's lands passed to her, especially in the west country. A romantic tale told by the Continuator of Wace and others (Freeman, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
History of the Norman Conquest}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , iv. App. Note 0) alleges that Matilda seized his lands because in youth he had spurned her hand. On Matilda's death in 1083 the lands passed to King William (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 1,43\tab `HENTAGE'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 A lost site just east of Alderton village; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ii. p. 50 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HUMPHREY HOLDS THESE LANDS. They were combined as the later manor of Dixton: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ii. pp. xi., 50; }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 191-92 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 8 SMALLHOLDERS. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 .iiii. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 corrected to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 .viii. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,44\tab 
IN TWYNING. This part of Twyning was separated from the Abbot of Winchcombe's manor of Twyning (11,3) and became the sub-manor of Mythe in Tewkesbury manor and hundred (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 4 VILLAGERS. This is partly obscured by an ink-blot in the manuscript (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 1,45\tab IN STOKE [ORCHARD]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
This holding was the later manor of Downing in the north-west of Stoke Orchard; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , viii. p. 12 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN. It is possible, though unprovable, that Alwin, who is also recorded in 32,6. 73,3}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and 77,1, is identical with Alwin the sheriff (1,2;13. 34,8;12) (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab LESS 1 VIRGATE. This may be erroneous, since the other manor in Stoke Orchard (3,7)}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 contained 7 hides, but 'Evesham K67' (see \{Appendix\}
) gives the same assessment in a different form: '2 hides and 3}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 virgates' (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BERNARD [* PANCEVOLT *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,47\tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab LEAGUE. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 leuga}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 leuua}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 leuuede}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
A measure of length, usually of woodland, traditionally reckoned at a mile and a half. If so, some woodland will have been of enormous length (see NTH 1,6 league note). A subdivision of the league was the furlong, reckoned at 220 yards, an eighth of a mil
e; see Domesday WOR 1,1c leagues note. Both the league and the furlong are used as square measures as well as linear ones. See 6,1 furlong note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 1,48\tab 
BRICTRIC ^[SON OF ALGAR]^. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab [OLD] SODBURY. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Chipping Sodbury [now the more important settlement] was formed out of Old Sodbury in the thirteenth century; see Finberg, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Gloucestershire Studies}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, pp. 66, 86 (JSM). [Old Sodbury represents the centre of the Domesday estate.]}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab A PARK. Not for leisure, but for hunting; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 parcus ferarum }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in HEF 1,41 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 parcus bestiarum }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
in DEV 1,64. It was usually an area of woodland within the manor, contrasting with}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  foresta }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (see 31,4 forest note), land outside; but see HEF 1,41 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 1,49\tab BRICTRIC ^[SON OF ALGAR]^. See 1,
39 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab VALUE \'a3
27. Entered in the right margin level with the last line of the entry and no doubt written later, though probably by the same scribe; it is cramped (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 1,50\tab 
BRICTRIC ^[SON OF ALGAR]^. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 4 HIDES 
OF THIS MANOR'S LAND. This holding of John the chamberlain was located in Eastleach Turville}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and still owed suit of court to Fairford in the thirteenth century (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ex inf}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Dr N. M. Herbert) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,51\tab 3 HIDES AND 3 VIRGATES OF THIS LAND. Like John the chamberlain's land (1,50), the holding of Baldwin was located in Eastleach Turville}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
and still owed suit of court to Fairford in the thirteenth century (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ex inf}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Dr N. M. Herbert) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab 
BALDWIN [* SON OF HERLEWIN *]. Baldwin's father, Herlewin, came to England e
ven before the reign of Edward the Confessor. Baldwin himself had a substantial holding before the Conquest and survived to hold under the Conqueror. The bulk of his holdings can be established from his distinctive pre-Conquest name and the links which th
i
s establishes. His holdings in 1086 were significantly different from those in 1066, only two being in his hands at both dates (BUK 17,15;24). Broadly speaking, his pre-Conquest lands were re-distributed to Hugh of Grandmesnil and William son of Ansculf, 
with Miles Crispin obtaining three holdings and several other tenants-in-chief a manor apiece. William son of Ansculf then re-endowed him with the bulk of his post-Conquest fee. See Lewis, 'The French in England before the Norman Conquest', and Clarke, }{
\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 , pp. 257-58; both lists include only Baldwin's pre-Conquest holdings (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,52\tab BRICTRIC ^[SON OF ALGAR]^. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,53\tab SHERIFF ... MANOR. See l,10 sheriff note (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab LATER EARL WILLIAM ... HAD IT. Earl William could have had it only for a few months as he died in 1071 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,55\tab [IN LYDNEY HUNDRED\}. The insertion of the hundredal rubric is justified by the location of another holding at Lydney in this hundred (32,11) 
and the later attachment of the hundred to the manor. Earl William's amalgamation remained as the later manor of Lydney (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 4 LANDS. It would seem that }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 terrae }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is not being used here as the equivalent of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 manerium}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
(see SOM 2,8 lands note), but as a small amorphous unit, land not classified as a}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 manor (see SUR 19,22 land note). Compare 1,60 'Earl William made one manor out of}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
these two villages' (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab FROM THE BISHOP OF HEREFORD'S LORDSHIP 3 HIDES. In exchange for Eaton}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Bishop; see HEF 2,8.}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 6 VILLAGERS. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ii }{\cf1\insrsid791211 corrected to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 vi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,56\tab BISHOP OSBERN. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 'Bishop' is an anachronism as he did not obtain the bishopric of Exeter until a year or so after Earl William's death (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WALTER OF LACY. Died 1085. Father of Roger of Lacy (see GLS 39 Roger note) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab EXCEPT FOR THE MONKS' SUPPLIES. That is, the only dues the manor paid were to}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 supply the monks with a certain amount of provisions (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ARCHBISHOP STIGAND. Bishop of Elmham (East Anglia) in 1043, then 1044-47, before}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 becoming Bishop of Winchester in 1047, which see he held with the archbishopric of}{\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 Canterbury from 1052 until he was deposed in 1070. Died 1072. On Stigand's status as Archbishop of Canterbury, see Darlington, 'Ecclesiastical Reform', p. 420 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab BLANCHED. Or 'white': }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 albas}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 candidas }{\cf1\insrsid791211 or }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 blancas }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in Domesday. A sample of coin was melted as a}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
test for the presence of alloy or baser metal. Money could also be said to be blanched when,}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 without a test by fire, a standard deduction was made to compensate for alloying or clipping,}{\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 at the rate of 20d to the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ora }{\cf1\insrsid791211 here and in 1,58;61. See Johnson, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Dialogus de Scaccario}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 125; and G1 "ora"}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,57\tab 
BOTH WOODLAND AND OPEN LAND AND MEADOW. Similar phrases are found elsewhere in Domesday (for example, WOR 8,6. 10,10; HEF 1,4; HRT 10,9). Also occurs here in 10,11. The inclusion of meadow and woodland within the hidated area is noteworthy (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,58\tab CYNWY CHELLE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Chenvichelle }{\cf1\insrsid791211 here; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Chenuicelle }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in 66,1. Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Cynewig }{\cf1\insrsid791211 with byname }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Chelle}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\insrsid791211 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid791211 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211  p. 221; Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 299 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,59\tab BECKFORD ... 11 HIDES. The royal 8 hides bec
ame the later manor of Beckford comprising the tithings of Beckford, Bengrove and Grafton which remained in Tibblestone Hundred; Ansfrid's 3 hides became the later manor of Didcot in Tewkesbury Hundred; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , viii. pp. 243, 253-55 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,60\tab ASHTON[-UNDER- HILL]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 This manor, which remained amalgamated with the royal manor of Beckford (1,59), comprised the remainder of the parish not included in Gerard's manor (1,40) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 3 FEMALE SLAVES. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 iiii}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , but an attempt seems to have been made to erase the first }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 i}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
; it is difficult to judge the success of the attempt because the tail of the 7 in the line above runs into the first }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 i }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab NEVER SEEN THE KING'S WRIT. Compare SUR 21,3 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,62\tab NOT IN THE REVENUE. It did not pay tax before the sheriff took it over (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,63\tab THIS ENTRY is cramped and in a different colour ink, so may have been entered later when the details of Woodchester were known; the scribe is the same, however (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WOODCHESTER. See 78,14 Woodchester note.
 Charter evidence suggests that Woodchester contained 3 hides: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Early Charters of the West Midlands}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 50 no. 85 (= Sawyer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Anglo-Saxon Charters}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , no. 1441 = Birch, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Cartularium Saxonicum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , no. 574). The entry refers to a notorious (and perhaps fictitious) hi
storical episode in which Earl Godwin procured the dissolution of Berkeley minster and acquired its lands by arranging for the seduction of its inmates; see Freeman, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 History of the Norman Conquest}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, ii. pp. 556-58; Taylor, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Berkeley Minster}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 pp. 80-81. Gytha evidently disapproved of Godwin's conduct, hence her refusal to live off the lands of Berkeley (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
EARL GODWIN. Earl of the West Saxons; father of Earl (King) Harold and Edith (wife of}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 King Edward). Died in 1053 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab AZUR <OF SLINDON>. Azur <of Sli
ndon> was one of the wealthiest thanes in southern England, his large estate centred in Sussex but spreading as far afield as Gloucestershire. The bulk had been held directly from King Edward though several holdings were held from Earls Godwin and Harold.
 
The division of Sussex into Rapes which cut across Anglo-Saxon tenurial arrangements make it impossible to be certain that every one of the Sussex holdings belonged to the same Azur; but the fact that he held from both the King and the earls in the three 
R
apes where most of his holdings lay, and that he had large manors in all of them, indicate the majority if not all of these holdings were his. The key to his identification in Gloucestershire, Wiltshire, and Surrey, and the link between these counties and
 
his Sussex manors, is provided by this Gloucestershire entry which reveals that Azur sold the manor to the Godwinsons and that it was held illegally in 1086 by Edward of Salisbury, on whom Azur's estates in Wiltshire and some in Surrey devolved. With one 
exception, the remaining holdings in Surrey, all substantial, were acquired by Richard of Tonbridge; they all lay between Edward of Salisbury's two manors and it is likely they had belonged to same individual. The remaining manor (SUR 8,30), valued at 
\'a36, h
ad been granted by Azur to Chertsey Abbey for his soul's sake, the act of a wealthy man. Finally, the three Hampshire properties acquired by Hugh of Port were freehold properties of substance, as was the Berkshire manor of Eddington (BRK 1,28), retained b
y King William. It may be coincidental but it is apparent that all the tenants-in-chief who shared Azur's holdings held official positions, as sheriffs or lords of liberties. See also Williams, }{\i\insrsid791211 The English and the Norman Conquest}{
\insrsid791211 , pp. 105-106 (who argues that Edward's predecessor may have been a relative of his); Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 , p. 255-57; and OXF 18,1 Azur note. (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab TO CONSUME. Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 comedere }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('to eat', 'use up'). Compare WOR 2,33 }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pasceret }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('maintain') (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab EDWARD [* OF SALISBURY *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 Edward of Salisbury, sheriff of Wiltshire in 1086 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab AS THE COUNTY STATES. The county court, as on several other occasions in Gloucestershire}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (for example, 1,65. 28,3. 32,9) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab NOBODY ... SURVEY. Compare 28,7 and 75,2 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,64\tab MADGETT.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Malmesbury Abbey's \'bd hide was at Sheepcot in Madgett; William of Eu's 2 hides and Roger of Lacy's \'bd hide (39,10) were added to William's manor of Woolaston (31,5); see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. p. 107 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ABBOT. Or 'Abbey' (see 1,11 abbot note), which perhaps fits better with the plural }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 dicunt }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1,65\tab REMITTED 5 HIDES OF THESE FOR EDNOTH. Made them exempt from tax. In 'Evesham K39' (see \{Appendix\}) }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ex iis vq}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ue}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
 s}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 un}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 t lib}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 er}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 e}{\cf1\insrsid791211  is interlined above the }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Omenie xv h}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ide}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and the hundred head}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 1,66\tab TOVI WIDENESCI. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 136 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab [GREAT] BARRINGTON. Amalgamated with 56,1 as the manor of Great Barrington: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 19-20. Compare 'Evesham K40' (see \{Appendix\}): 'In }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Bernitone }{\cf1\insrsid791211 8 hides' with '2 manors' interlined above the Barrington hundred head (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 1,67\tab 
[GREAT] BARRINGTON. See 1,66 Barrington note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 2\tab 
ARCHBISHOP THOMAS. Thomas of Bayeux, Archbishop of York 1070 to 1100. Brother of Samson, Bishop of Worcester (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 2,1\tab [IN 'DUDSTONE' HUNDRED]. The insertion of the hundredal rubric is justified by the inclusion within this hundred}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 of all the surrounding manors (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ARCHBISHOP STIGAND. See 1,56 Stigand note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 2,3\tab WALKELIN, THE BISHOP OF WINCHESTER'S NEPHEW. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The Bishop of Winchester himself was also called Walkelin, bishop from 1070 to 1098 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 2,4\tab ARCHBISHOP ALDRED. See 1,2 Aldred note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ODDINGTON. The 10 hides comprised only Oddington; the outlier at Condicote was joined to another \'bd hide there (36,2); it was assessed in twelfth-century charters at 1 \'bd hides; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}
{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 63-67, 191-92 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THE VALUE WAS. In the manuscript there is an erasure under }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 T.R.E. Valb' .vi. lib'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , which is therefore slightly cramped (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
ST PETER'S OF GLOUCESTER HAD IT. Aldred had rebuilt Gloucester Abbey Church when he was Bishop of Worcester, and he continued to hold this manor, together with Northleach and Standish (12,8;10), after he had become Archbishop o
f York in 1061. According to the Gloucester History (Hart,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. 93) they were returned to St Peter's by Archbishop Thomas in 1095; but a writ (possibly spurious?) dated 1070 appears in }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. no. 36, stating that, following a 
lawsuit, King William has confirmed to St Peter's the lands Archbishop Thomas held unjustly, naming these three manors (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 2,5\tab ST OSWALD'S [* OF GLOUCESTER *]. The Church o}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 f St Oswald, Gloucester; see 2,11 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 2,6\tab A }{\cf1\insrsid791211 MANOR OF 1 HIDE IN SHIPTON [SOLERS]. Probably absorbed into Lower Hampen manor (32,13) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 2,8\tab NORTHLEACH. It }{\cf1\insrsid791211 included Eastington; the total hidage was 25 (12+1+12) hides. See note to 'Evesham K103' in the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab WALTER SON OF POYNTZ. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The manuscript has the genitive }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pontii}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; Farley misprinted }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pontu }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ARCHBISHOP THOMAS CLAIMS IT. That is, Walter's 12 hides at Farmington; see 'Evesham M3' in the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 2,9\tab THE ARCHBISHOP ^[THOMAS]^}{\cf1\insrsid791211  CLAIMS THIS. His claim to the 3 hides held by Roger of Ivry's man evidently succeeded, since there is no evidence of a holding in Compton Abdale held from the St Val\'e9
ry family or the Earls of Cornwall as successors of the Ivrys. The hidage figure for the whole manor is uncertain: this entry and 'Evesham K74' give it as 9 hides, but 'Evesham M100' states it to be 10 hides, a rather more probable total; (see \{Appendix
\}) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 2,10\tab STANDISH. The Abbot of Gloucester's hide was at Farley in Hardwicke (1 carucate in 1291); Durand's 3 hides were at Rudge in Hardwicke (3 carucates in 1291); Ea
rl Hugh of Chester's hide was at Field Court in Hardwicke (1 carucate in 1309); see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. pp. 183, 185, 233. Compare 'Evesham M4;7' in the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ABBOT OF GLOUCESTER. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Or 'Abbey'; see 1,11 abbot note. On St Peter's, Gloucester, see GLS 10 St Peter's note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab RIGHTLY OUGHT TO HOLD IT. See 2,4 St Peter's note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab EARL HUGH. Of Chester; see GLS 28 Hugh note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ROGER [* OF P\'ceTRES *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Roger of Gloucester (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 alias }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Roger of P\'eetres), brother of Durand, not of Earl}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 William; se
e 56,2 Roger note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
ARCHBISHOP THOMAS CLAIMS THESE LANDS. That is, Earl Hugh's hide and Durand's}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 3 hides (see 'Evesham M4' in the \{Appendix\}) and perhaps also the Abbot of Gloucester's hide (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 2,12\tab [NORTH] CERNEY.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 This manor comprised the village itself and the land east of the River Churn (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ex}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  inf}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Dr N. M. Herbert) (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 2,13\tab ROGER [* OF GLOUCESTER *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Roger of Gloucester, probably the son of Durand the sheriff, who gave 'the land of Ulfketil' (among others) to St Peter's Abbey, Gloucester, in 
1100, in exchange for 'all that Abbot (Serlo) had in Westbury except the tithes of water and wood'; see the Gloucester History and Cartulary (Hart, i. pp. 112, 352, ii. p. 128); see also G. H. White in }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Notes and Queries }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 twelfth ser. vol. v. p. 233 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 3\tab CHURCH OF WORCESTER. The Church of St Mary, f}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
ounded by Oswald Bishop of Worcester (961-992) and Archbishop of York (from 972), and completed in 983. Gloucestershire east of the River Leadon and River Severn was included in the diocese of Worcester (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 3,1\tab WESTBURY [ON TRYM]. The original hidage was 76 \'bd hides (50+8+5+3\'bd +5+5), but all the 'satellites' ('Evesham K78'; 'Evesham M8'; 'Worcester A4'; 'Worcester B15'; see \{Appendix\}
) agree with Domesday in assessing the land at 50 hides. No mention is made in 'Evesham K78' (not translated in the \{Appendix\}) or in 'Evesham M8' of the additional 26 \'bd
 hides held by various military tenants (3,1), though these are recorded in 'Worcester A4' and 'Worcester B15'. Later surveys (the Red Book of Worcester (Hollings, pp. 380-81, 405-406, 413-17, 429-30, 433, 437; compare }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Book of Fees}
{\cf1\insrsid791211 , i.}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 p. 38) place the 8 hides held by the riding men at Charlton, Henbury and Redland; Osbern}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Giffard's 5 hides were his manor of 5 hides at Stoke Gifford (50,2), of which the overlordship}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 was in dispute between the Crown and the Bishops of Worcester until the end of the thirteenth}{\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 century (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 6 SMALLHOLDERS. So the manuscript and Farley; the Ordnance Survey facsimile does not reproduce the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 i }{\cf1\insrsid791211 after the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 v }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 3,2\tab HE COULD NOT WITHDRAW. See 1,16 turn note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab WALTER SON OF ROGER. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Roger of P\'eetres, sheriff of Gloucestershire; see GLS 56 Walter note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 3,3\tab EYCOT.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Compare 'Worcester Al' and 'Worcester B16' in the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab 
IT LIES IN BIBURY. This occurs in precisely the same position as the normal hundred head, though it is not in capitals or rubricated, and signifies that this holding was in Bibury Hundred, not Rapsgate Hundred, which is confirmed by 'Evesham K80' }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 (see \{Appendix\})}{\insrsid791211 . Later evidence shows that another 4 hides of Eycot (making a 5-hide manor; see 3,4 Bibury note) were included within the 21 hides of Bibury manor in Bibury Hundred (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 3,4\tab BIBURY. Compare 'Evesham K80'; 'Worcester A1'; 'Worcester B17' in the \{Appendix\}
. Later surveys locate the 4 hides held by 3 riding men at Eycot in Rendcombe (the Red Book of Worcester: Hollings, pp. 412, 414, 417, 439); the priest's 3 hides as the later rectory manor of Bibury and Aldsworth (Salter, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Cartulary of Oseney Abbey}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , i. p. 97, ii. pp. 1-8, 11, 30-37, iii. pp. 193-95, 232, 262-63). The 3 \'bc hides and 1 \'be hides in Barnsley were later united as the manor of Barnsley (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab DURAND [* THE SHERIFF *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab BISHOP WULFSTAN. Bishop of Worcester 1062-1095 (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 3,5\tab WITHINGTON. See 'Worcester B18' in the \{Appendix
\}. The priest's \'bd hide remained as the later glebe of Withington church. The 2 \'be hides held by 4 riding men can be identified from later surveys as 1 \'bd hides in Owdeswell and 1 \'bd hides in Upcote,
 both hamlets in Withington parish; these surveys and the total hidage for Wattlescomb Hundred both suggest that 2 \'be hides should be corrected to 3 hides (the Red Book of Worcester: Hollings, pp. 359-60, 367). 'Evesham K81' (see \{Appendix\}
) wrongly gives the number of hides not paying tax as 4. These locations are confirmed in 'Worcester A2' (see note in the \{Appendix\}), which enables the assessments to be corrected (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ASCELIN.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Domesday }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Schelin}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 us}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]:}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 the same name as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Azelinus}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see }{\insrsid791211 Forssner, }{
\i\insrsid791211 Continental-Germanic Personal Names}{\insrsid791211 , p. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 38; }{\insrsid791211 F\'f6rstemann,}{\i\insrsid791211  Personennamen}{\insrsid791211 , p.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  221 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab DROGO [* SON OF POYNTZ *]. Drogo son of Poyntz, whose collateral descendants, the Cliffords, held Aston Blank from the bishop in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab MEADOW AND WOODLAND IN CERTAIN PLACES BUT NOT MUCH. An unclear phrase; the meaning could be 'meadow in certain places; woodland, but not much'; grammatically }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 multa }{\cf1\insrsid791211 agrees with }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 silva}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 not }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pratum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , but could refer to both (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 3,6\tab THIS ENTRY was added slightly later in a paler ink at the top of folio 165a on a level with the county heading. See 'Worcester B20' in the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 2 HIDES IN CONDICOTE. This holding is later represented by Hinchwick (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 3,7\tab [BISHOPS] CLEEVE.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Compare 'Worcester A3' and 'Worcester B19' in the \{Appendix\}
. Later surveys in the Red Book of Worcester (Hollings, pp. 344-45, 348, 351) locate the riding man's hide at Wontley in Southam; the priest's hide was taken into the demesne at Bishops Cleeve (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab DRAUGHT ANIMAL. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 afrus}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Dictionary of Medieval Latin}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , under }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Averus}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 According to Du Cange, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Glossarium}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , under }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 afferi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and also }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 affrus}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 these are }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 iumenta vel caballi colonici }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ...}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  equi}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 agriculturae idonei }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ('beasts of burden or plough horses ... horses suitable for agriculture'). It is probable that these notices of draught animals were included by mistake from the original returns (for example, the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Liber Exoniensis
}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ) which listed animals and gave other material additional to Great Domesday (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab `SAPPERTON'. A lost settlement in Bishops Cleeve (}{\i\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\insrsid791211 , viii. pp. 2, 9, 250), not Saberton in Dumbleton or Beckford as previously thought (}{\i\insrsid791211 
Early Charters of the West Midlands}{\insrsid791211 , pp. 59, 69; }{\i\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\insrsid791211  }{\insrsid791211 ii. pp. 43-44) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab VALUE ... \'a336. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xxx }{\cf1\insrsid791211 with }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 vi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 interlined to correct the number to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xxxvi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}
{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 4,1\tab BISHOP OF HEREFORD. Walter of Lorraine, chaplain to Queen Edith, and Bishop of Hereford from 1061 to 1079 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab SEVENHAMPTON, A VILLAGE }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
OUTSIDE THAT HUNDRED. That is, in }{\insrsid791211 "Wacrescumbe"}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Hundred, as are other adjacent}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 villages (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab DURAND [* THE SHERIFF *] HOLDS 3 HIDES.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  These three hides were later represented by the manors of Hampen (in Sevenhampton}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
and Shipton Solers) and Oakley Wood (in Charlton Kings, Prestbury and Sevenhampton) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
BISHOP OF THIS TOWN. That is, Hereford. Robert Losinga was bishop from 1079 to 1095 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 5\tab BISHOP OSBERN ^[OF EXETER]^. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Bishop of Exeter 1072-1103, brother of Earl William of Hereford. He came over to England from Normandy in King Edward's time and probably became that king's chaplain (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 5,1\tab ALWY. He may well be Alwy Hiles, whose man Harold in 1066 held Iron Acton (69,6), east of Tytherington (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 5,2\tab ALWY.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See 5,1 Alwy note (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab IN LORDSHIP 2 PLOUGHS. The vill
agers' ploughs may have been omitted in error from the manuscript; see also 6,8 ploughs note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WOODLAND \'bd LEAGUE IN LENGTH AND WIDTH. That is, \'bd league by \'bd league. There are several occurrences of this formula in Domesday Somerset where the corresponding entry in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Liber Exoniensis}{
\cf1\insrsid791211  (Exon) gives the same measurements for both length and width (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 6\tab BISHOP OF COUTANCES. Geoffrey of Mowbray, one of King William's chief justices. He held a great deal of land in the south-west, especially in Somerset and Devon. Saint-L\'f4 is near Coutances in the d\'e9
partement of Manche, France (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 6,1\tab `ACTON [ILGER]'. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 It was named after the Domesday tenant; its centre was not Algar's Manor, an antiquarian creation of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1900 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 iii. pp. 1-2), which was the site of the \'bd mill, but Church House next to Iron Acton church (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 2 \'bd HIDES. In the manuscript }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 dimid' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is interlined after }{\i\f703\cf1\insrsid791211 ii hid\'ea 7 }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \'bd
 MILL. The other half of the mill is probably to be found in 69,6 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WOODLAND, 1 FURLONG. The furlong is probably being used here as a square measure,}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 each side being 1 furlong long; see 1,47 league note. See also in WOR 2,23 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 6,2\tab LAND FOR 5 PLOUGHS. A unique occurr
ence in Gloucestershire of the 'teamland' formula found in many other Domesday counties; see 11,5 further note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 6,3\tab A MANOR OF 1 HIDE. Identified from later evidence as Sturden (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab GOSMER.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Goismer}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 us}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]: Old German }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Gosmer}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 see }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 Forssner, }{\i\insrsid791211 Continental-Germanic Personal Names}{\insrsid791211 , p. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 127, under }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Gosmer}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Goismer }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WHEN IT IS PLOUGHED, THERE ARE ONLY 64 ACRES OF LAND IN THAT HIDE. Another unique piece of information, presumably indicating the existence of a two-field system. Why this should ha
ve been thought worthy of special mention is unknown, though later evidence shows that three-field systems were the norm in the southern vale region of the country. Later evidence also shows that the area of this manor's lordship land was still about 65 a
cres in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 6,5\tab ROBERT [* OF DOYNTON *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Robert in this entry and in 6,7-8 is Robert of Doynton, whose descendants held Doynton until the thirteenth century, and from whom 'Lee' and Gaunts Earthcott were held by St
 Mark's Hospital, Bristol, and its founders: Ross, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Cartulary of St Mark's Hospital}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Bristol}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 180-81, 183-86, 189, 217-19, 243, 247-87 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 6,6\tab THIS ENTRY and the three following (6,7-9) are written in a cramped style, probably added slightly later by the scribe (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab `WAPLEY [RECTORY]'. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The later manor of Wapley 'Rectory' in Wapley and Codrington (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 6,7\tab `LEE'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Lee manor was centred on St Swithun's Farm in Almondsbury and included Over in Almondsbury as well as the St Swithun's estate; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 iii. p. 132 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ROBERT [* OF DOYNTON *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See 6,5 Robert note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 6,8\tab ROBERT [* OF DOYNTON *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See 6,5 Robert note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab CUTHWULF.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Cuulf}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see }{\insrsid791211 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid791211 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 p. 220 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab IN LORDSHIP 2 PLOUGHS. It is probable that villagers' ploughs have been accidentally}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 omitted from this entry, as also perhaps in 5,2 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 4 VILLAGERS.}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  7}{\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 iiii. vill'i }{\cf1\insrsid791211 was originally omitted in the manuscript, so written mostly in the}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
margin, hence its unusual position in the list of population (villagers normally precede}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 smallholders) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WOODLAND [***]. A gap of about eight letters follows }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 silua}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , no doubt for the extent of the}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 woodland to be added later, when available (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 6,9\tab DODINGTON. The 
two holdings (6,9. 42,2) undoubtedly formed one agrarian unit in and after 1086, though the overlordship remained in dispute for centuries. The two fractional hidages combine neatly into one 5-hide vill, 'the third part of \'bd
 hide' being equivalent to one-sixth of a hide (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ROGER [* OF BERKELEY *]. Roger is clearly Roger of Berkeley who held the remainder of Dodington (42,2) from the king (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 7,1\tab ST PETER'S OF BATH. Bath Abbey (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 3 OF THEM PAY TAX AND 2 DO NOT. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 tres geldant }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is added in the right margin and the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 7}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 is squashed in, both written later in paler ink, the original reading having been 'Of these 2 do not pay tax' (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab MEADOWS AND WOODLAND TO MAINTAIN THE MANOR. Hens and hay for oxen are two of the items coming from and
 in woodland and meadows (39,6 and 59,1), apart from pasturage and food for pigs. Hunting, honey, firewood and timber are also mentioned as coming from woodland in WOR 2,15;31. Compare 10,8 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 8,1\tab PUCKLECHURCH. The manor included Westerleigh and Wick and Abson (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab LUMPS OF IRON. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Massas ferri}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; the quantity of iron represented by a }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 massa}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , if in fact it was a standard measure, is unknown (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 9,1\tab THIS ENTRY is compressed at the bottom of the column; the scribe is the same, however (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 10\tab ST PETER'S OF GLOUCESTER. Serlo, a Norman monk from Mont -Saint-Michel, became its abbot on the death of Wulfstan in 1072, until 1104 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 10,1\tab `[ABBOTS] BARTON'. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ii. p. 136 (JSM). [For a \'bd
 hide lying in Droitwich but attached to this manor, see WOR 7,1 and 'Evesham Q29' in WOR \{Appendix\}.]}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab `MORWENTS [END]'. S}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ee }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
iii. p. 156. Now represented by Coopey's, Drew's and Laughton's Farms in Hartpury. Later records suggest that its assessment may have been 1 \'bc
 hides: Gloucestershire Record Office D. 199/1, a survey of Hartpury manor in 1700, mentions 5 copyhold yardlands 'in Morwents End' (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 10,8\tab HIGHNAM. The timings of Highnam, Linton and Over in Churcham parish: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. pp. 1, 11, 17 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab MARGINAL }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 r}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The abbreviation for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 require }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
('enquire'); it is written in the margin usually when the scribe has left space for some information not then available to remind him to inser
t it later. In this case it is not certain for what information he was waiting as no space has been left in the text (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WOODLAND SUFFICIENT FOR THE MANOR. Compare 7,1. Presumably wood for building and repair work, and as firewood and land for pigs to feed on. See WOR 2,31; SHR 4,4,20 and WIL 13,10;18 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 10,9\tab PRESTON.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Next to Dymock (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 10,11\tab CHURCHAM AND 'MORTON'. The later manor and tithing of Churcham in Churcham parish; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. pp. 1, 11, 17. 'Evesham M43', however, just c
alls this manor 'Morton' (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Mortune}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ); see \{Appendix\}.}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 iii. p. 197 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WOODLAND AND OPEN LAND. See 1,57 woodland note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HUNTING ... ENCLOSURES. See 1,34 enclosure note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 10,12\tab AMPNEY [ST PETER].}{\cf1\insrsid791211 This manor, na
med after St Peter's Abbey, was enlarged in the twelfth century by gifts of land in 'Ampney St Nicholas' (60,3) and Ampney Crucis (67,1). It was centred on the present Can Court: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}
{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. 53 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab REINBALD [* OF CIRENCESTER *]'S BROTHER. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Reinbald the priest; see Ellis, 'Landholders of Gloucestershire', p. 120 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 10,13\tab WALTER OF LACY'S WIFE. Ermelina (Emma). Her grant of Duntisbourne to St Peter's is recorded in the Gloucester History (Hart,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. 73) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab DUNTISBOURNE [ABBOTS]. It was }{\cf1\insrsid791211 named after the Abbot of St Peter's and was enlarged in 1100 by the gift of Gilbert de Eskecot's 2 hides (39,7; see 39,7 Gilbert note) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 11,1\tab 10 OF THEM ARE FREE; THEY BELONG TO THE COURT. Free of tax; they were lordship land (compare 39,6) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 11,3\tab TWYNING. The main manor of Twyning (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 11,4\tab FRAMPTON. 'Frampton Court'. Now Holt Farm in Winchcombe (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 11,5\tab ALDERTON. Absorbed into Naunton manor (11,6) in the fourteenth century: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 191-92. This can be id
entified as Frampton, now in Winchcombe, but down to 1600 still known as 'Frampton in Alderton' (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab A FURTHER 3 POSSIBLE. 3 ploughs; in several Domesday counties (for example, Worcestershire) it is stated how many more ploughs could be employed on a manor. This formula seems to be used as a substitute for the phrase 'land for }
{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 n }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ploughs' which is common in a number of Domesday counties (see 6,2 ploughs note) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 11,6\tab A FURTHER 6 WOULD BE POSSIBLE. The Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 possent esse}{\cf1\insrsid791211  is subjunctive, perhaps with a different nuance from the indicative }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 possunt esse }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
(translated as 'possible'; see 11,5). Both forms occur also in Domesday Worcestershire; see WOR 1,1c possible note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 11,7\tab LORDSHIP ... SLAVES. An ink blot covers most of both }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 d'nio }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 serui}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , but the meaning is clear (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 11,10\tab 8 LIABLE FOR SERVICE. Presumably signifying villagers' land, on which service was done; usually in Domesday the villagers' land, if mentioned at all, is given after their ploughs (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 11,12\tab HIDCOTE [BOYCE].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Not, as asserted by most historians, Hidcote Bartrim (12,9) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 11,13\tab ANSWERED FOR 60 HIDES. Paid tax for 60 hides (see 1,3 answered note ). The 1086 total of taxable hides in 11,1-12 appears to be 57 \'bd hides, if the hide at Frampton (11,4) is still exempt (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 11,14\tab 
THIS ENTRY was no doubt added later because of the compression of the first three lines and the continuation at the foot of the folio below the marginal rulings, in the middle of 12,3. Both lines at the bottom extend into the left margin (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
[IN BARRINGTON HUNDRED]. The insertion of the hundredal rubric is justified by both the last line of the entry and the location of all but one of the Windrush manors in this hundred. This entry is duplicated in 78,1 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 12,1\tab STOW [ON THE WOLD]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Previously 'Edwards Stow' after St Edward's Church. The ninth hide near the church can be identified as Hide Farm and The Hyde in Maugersbury, the parent settlement of Stow; see }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. 223 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab KING AETHELRED GAVE IT, EXEMPT. The ninth hide; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Early Charters of the West Midlands}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , no. 150 p. 67 (= Sawyer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Anglo-Saxon Charters}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, no. 935) for details of the exemption. Aethelred II (the 'Unready') ruled from 978/9 to 1013 and from 1014 to 1016 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 12,2\tab ADLESTROP. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 By 1104 at the latest, the lordship and the man-at-arms' land had become a sub-manor of 4 hides; see 'Evesham O8' in the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 12,3\tab 2 FREE MEN. Their land was probably the hide in Bourton and 5 \'bd virgates in Donnington later recorded as subinfeudated by Abbot Walter before 1104; see 'Evesham E25' and 'Evesham O6;10' in the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 12,4\tab 13 SLAVES. Added later in the left-hand margin and ringed in black ink, but with no sign to indicate its correct position in the entry (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 12,5\tab [UPPER] SWELL.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  3 HIDES. Originally held by the Erneis who in 1066 held several other lands in Gloucestershire; see British Library, Harley 3763 folio 64r (= Kemble, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Codex Diplomaticus}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , no. 801, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Erusio }{\cf1\insrsid791211 there being a misprint for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernsio}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ) (JSM). }{\insrsid791211 See 31,12 Ernsi note.}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 12,6\tab WICKHAMFORD. Philologically, Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Wiquennam }{\cf1\insrsid791211 could represent either Childswickham (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ii. p. 6) or Wickhamford (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Worcestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 p. 273), and Dr Clarke favoured the former identification (Clarke, 
}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Early Surveys of Evesham Abbey}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, pp. 121, 421-22). But Childswickham is entered elsewhere as a manor of 10 hides (47,1), whilst Wickhamford and the associated manor of Bretforton Upper End contained 9 hides (WOR 10,6; 'Evesham A25-26' (see WOR\{Appendix\})): with the hide at }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Wiquennam}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , an original unit of 10 hides can be reconstituted. The identification of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Wiquennam }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
as Wickhamford is further confirmed by 12,10, in which the total assessment of Evesham Abbey's Gloucester\-shire holdings is given as 56 hide
s, a total also given in 'Evesham H2' and 'Evesham M70'. The sum of the assessments in 12,1-9, including the 2 free hides at Maugersbury (12,1) and 'Weston Cantilupe' (12,7) as well as the hide at }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Wiquennam}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is 57 hides, as Clarke himself noted (Clarke, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Early Surveys of Evesham Abbey}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 232), hence the hide at }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Wiquennam }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
must be excluded to conform with the stated Gloucestershire total of 56 hides. Consequently, this hide was not in Gloucestershire and was therefore at Wickhamford, not Childswickham. 'Evesham F5-6' and 'Evesham K133-134' list the hide at }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Wiquennam }{\cf1\insrsid791211 separately from the 8 hides at Willersey; see \{Appendix\}. However, only 8 hides at Willersey and none at }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Wiquennam }{\cf1\insrsid791211 are mentioned in 'Evesham M66' (see \{
Appendix\}) and in }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . l 190 Evesham Church had 28 virgates (7 hides) at Willersey (B. L., Cotton Vespasian B xxiv, folio 64v; Harley 3763, folio 80r) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 12,7\tab `WESTON [CANTILUPE]'. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 In Weston-on-Avon: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
i. p. 260. The total assessment was 4 hides; see note to 'Evesham E10' in the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 12,8\tab [LARK] STOKE. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The assessment is given at 2 \'bd hides in 'Evesham O3'. The manor had been subinfeudated before Abbot Walter's death in 1104 to his brother Ranulf ('Evesham O1;3;5') (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THE ABBOT. Walter, Abbot of Evesham 1077-1104 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 12,9\tab HIDCOTE [BARTRIM]. It}{\cf1\insrsid791211  has been generally confused with Hidcote [Boyce] in 11,12; the suffix is derived from Bertram of Hidcote (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. pp. 244-45), a twelfth-century subtenant of Evesham Abbey (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 12,10\tab THE QUARTER OF WINCHCOMBE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ferding }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
is a 'part', 'quarter', often used in Domesday of the ward of a borough (see SUS 9,107 quarter note) and as a measurement of land (as in some south\--west 
counties, a quarter of a virgate). Here it refers to the shire of Winchcombe, absorbed into Gloucestershire in the early eleventh century, which was roughly a quarter of the size of Gloucestershire (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
. 2400 hides according to Maitland, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Book and Beyond}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 456). See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Early Charters of the West Midlands}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 228-35; Taylor, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 218-21 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 56 HIDES. The sum of the hidages in 12,1-9, excluding the hide at Wickhamford (see 12,6 Wickhamford note) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 13,1\tab 6 SLAVES ... \'a312. A large smudge from the ink blot (mentioned in 11,7 lordship note) obscures part of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ibi vi. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 .xii lib' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 14,2\tab [HUNDRED]. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Hd' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 or }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Hund' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 omitted by the scribe, either in error or through lack of space (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 16\tab [THE CHURCH OF] SAINTE-MARIE OF CORMEILLES. A Benedictine Abbey, founded }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1060 by William son}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
of Osbern (see G 4 William note). He died in 1071 and was buried there (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 16,1\tab NEWENT. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See 1,11 Newent note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab EARL ROGER ... FATHER'S SOUL. Earl Roger of Hereford; his father Earl William died}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in 1071 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab A REEVE WHO HAS. Farley omitted the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ibi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 before }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 p'posit' h'ns }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in error (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab A MILL AT 20d. There is no indication as to the case of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 molin'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 :}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 it need not be in the}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 accusative after 
}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 h}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 abe}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 nt}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See also in 52,3 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab DURAND [* THE SHERIFF *] HOLDS}{\cf1\insrsid791211  1 HIDE. This hide maintained its separate existence as the later manor of Boulsdon in Frampton-on-Severn and Newent: Taylor\'b8}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
 Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 202; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. p. 147 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HEDGED ENCLOSURES. See 1,34 enclosures note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 17\tab [THE CHURCH OF] SAINTE-MARIE OF LYRE. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Founded in 1046 by William son of Osbern (see G4 William note ). La Vieille-Lyre is in the d\'e9partement of Eure, France (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 17,1\tab DUNTISBOURNE [LEER]. Named from its possession by Lyre Abbey. Its assessment}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 should probably have been 1 \'bd hides, not 1 \'bc
 hides; the section of Duntisbourne in Rapsgate Hundred then becomes a normal 5-hide vill: 1 \'bd hides (17,1) + 2 hides (39,7) + 2 \'bd virgates (68,11) + 3 \'bd virgates (78,3) = 5 hides. Later amalgamated with 78,3 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ROGER OF LACY. Son of Walter of Lacy who died in 1085 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 18\tab CHURCH OF EYNSHAM.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  'Evesham K143' describes Eynsham Abbey as '[the Church] of All Saints, Eynsham', }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 omnium sanctorum }{\cf1\insrsid791211 being interlined above }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Eglesham}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\i\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab MEASURES OF SALT. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Mensurae salis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; of uncertain size; used once of corn in SHR 4,3,45 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 19,1\tab DEERHURST. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. no. 32, for a notification (1066-69) by King William that St Peter's, Westminster, should 
have Pershore (WOR 8,1) and Deerhurst as given by King Edward, with all the customs which pertained to them when in Edward's hands. See also }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 i. no. 234. A grant by King William, dated 13th April 1069, of the Church of Deerhurst to Saint-Denis, previously held by Abbot Baldwin (see 19,2 Baldwin note), appears in }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. no. 26. For King Edward's grants of Deerhurst, see Harmer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Anglo-Saxon Writs}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , nos. 99-102 pp. 363-68, 519-21; see also pp. 329-32 (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 19,2\tab WATER-MEADOWS. Domesday }{\i\f703\cf1\insrsid791211 Broc\'ea}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , a first declension Latinization of Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 broc}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see HEF 24,2 water-meadow note. Old English }
{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 broc }{\cf1\insrsid791211 came to mean 'a brook', but originally the word (like its cognates Middle Dutch and Dutch }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 brock}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , Low German }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 brok}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, Old High German and Modern German }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 bruch}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 meant 'marsh', 'bog' etc., a sense retained by }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 brook }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
'water-meadow' in the Modern English dialects of Kent, Sussex, Surrey and in medieval field names in Cambridgeshire and Essex, and in some place-names; see }{\insrsid791211 Ekwall, }{\i\insrsid791211 Dictionary of English Place-Names}{\insrsid791211 
, under }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 broc}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . Of these outliers Hardwicke lies on the River Swilgate, and Todenham and Sutton-under-Brailes lie on tributaries of the River Stour (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab REINBALD [* THE PRIEST *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Perhaps Reinbald the priest who is mentioned as Reinbald }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 cancellarius }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in a grant (perhaps spurious: Harmer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Anglo-Saxon-Writs}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, pp. 289-90) by King Edward of Deerhurst among other manors to St Peter's, Westminster: Kemble, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Codex Diplomaticus}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , no. 824 (= Sawyer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Anglo-Saxon Charters}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, no. 1043) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab `ELLINGS'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Telinge}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; it comprised Ellings in Tirley, Nellings in Deerhurst and Yellings}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in Chaceley; see }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ii. p. 171 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WALTER PONTHER. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ponther}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ius}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]; perhaps from Medieval Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pontarius }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
('bridge builder') or }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 puntarius}{\insrsid791211  (}{\cf1\insrsid791211 'sword-fighter'); see}{\cf1\insrsid4397692  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, p. 265. The same man apparently occurs with the surname }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Puchier}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (occasionally miswritten }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Pubier}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
in 'Worcester B' (Hearne,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  Hemingi Chartularium}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 299, 305) as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Wallterius Pubier }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Walterus Puchier}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , referring to the}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Walter Ponther of WOR 2,5;58.}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 This man obviously bore two surnames, he was Walter }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ponther }{\cf1\insrsid791211 but presumably he or his}{
\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 family came from Picardy (whence }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Le Poher}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Puhier}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ); see Reaney, }{\i\insrsid791211 Dictionary of British Surnames}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , under }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ponter }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and}{\insrsid791211  }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Poor}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Walter Ponther's hide at Todenham was probably reabsorbed into the main manor of}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Todenham; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 252-53 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab AT HAYDEN 2 HIDES. They were in Boddington and formed the manor of Hayden in the}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 tithing of Hayden and Withybridge within Westminster Hundred; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 186, 238, viii.}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 pp. 170-71, 188, 190-92 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab AT BOURTON[-ON-THE-HILL] 2 HIDES. Gerard's 2 hides here became the Bourton}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 House estate; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 199-200 (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab KEMERTON ... KEMERTON.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  The two \'bd hides held by Gerard and Abbot Baldwin probably}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
became the carucate of glebe at Kemerton recorded at the end of the thirteenth century; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , viii. pp. 210-13, 217 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab LEOFWIN <OF ALVEST
ON>. The estates and identity of this Leofwin, an uncle of Thorkil of Warwick, have been plausibly identified by Williams, 'Vice-comital family in pre-Conquest Warwickshire'. To her list should perhaps be added two holdings at Harbury and Cubbington (WAR 
16,7;53), both 'family' vills. At Cubbington the holding was shared with another family member, Ketilbiorn, in 1066 (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab GERARD [* THE CHAMBERLAIN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}
{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THERE ALSO ABBOT BALDWIN ... \'bd HIDE.}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 This phrase is lined through in}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
black in the manuscript indicating deletion; the scribe wrote the line after the wrong Kemerton entry (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ALWY [* ALWIN THE SHERIFF *]. Predecessor of William of Goizenboded in Gloucestershire. His other estates have been reconstructed by Ann Williams via a complex network of linkages: 'Introduction', }{\i\insrsid791211 
Gloucestershire Domesday}{\insrsid791211 , p. 23. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 , pp. 233-34, who does not include the holdings (19,2 and 32,6) at Evington and Huntley (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab LEOFWIN <OF ALVESTON>. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab 
ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *]. The estates of the those Alwins which can be attributed to Alwin the sheriff, father of Thorkil of Warwick, have been plausibly identified by Williams, 'Vice-comital family in pre-Conquest Warwickshire'. Fenny Compton (WAR 17
,59) should probably be added to the estates listed there since it devolved upon Alwin's son Thorkil, was shared in 1066 with a brother, Ordric, and lay in a 'family' vill (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ABBOT BALDWIN. A monk of Saint-Denis, Paris, then prior of Deerhurst before the division}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 of its lands between the Abbeys of Westminster and Saint-Denis (compare 'Evesham M79'; see \{Appendix
\}); finally Abbot of}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Bury St Edmunds 1065 to 1097/98. He was also King Edward's doctor. See Harmer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Anglo-Saxon-Writs}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 539;}{\insrsid791211  }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. no. 26 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab `[UPPER] LEMINGTON'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . Now Lemington Manor; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. 246 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ALFRITH. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Elfrid}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 us}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]; see }{\insrsid791211 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid791211 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{
\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211  p. 144, under }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Alfrith }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab GERARD ... 3 HIDES IN BODDINGTON. These were united with his other 3 hides (1,41)}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 as the later manor of Boddington (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THEY RENDERED NEITHER TAX NOR SERVICE. They were exempt ('Evesham M79'; see \{Appendix\}), rather}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 than that Gerard failed to pay the tax and service (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab KING'S MEASURE. Compare 'borough's measure', also for sesters of honey, in G1 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 20\tab SAINT-DENIS, PARIS. The Abbey of St Dionysius in Paris. See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. no. 26, for the}{\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 grant in 1069 by King William of the Church of Deerhurst to Saint-Denis (it was originally}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 given by King Edward to Baldwin, a monk there and later Abbot of Bury St Edmunds; see}{\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 19,2 Baldwin note) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 20,1\tab CHURCH OF SAINT-DENIS. The total assessment of the Gloucestershire lands of the Abbey of Saint-Denis was similarly 60 hides in 'Evesham M80'; compare 'Evesham K153-154' in the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 2 \'bd HIDES BEYOND THE SEVERN. These have been identified as Haw in Tirley: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , viii. pp. 26-27, 98-100 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab KEMERTON, \'bd HIDE. This possibly became the 2 yardlands owned by Brasenose College,}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Oxford, from the early sixteenth century; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , viii. p. 213 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 21,1\tab COUNTESS GODA. Sister of King Edward (24,1); wife of Count Drogo of Mantes, then the first wife of Count Eustace of Boulogne; died }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1056 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab }{\insrsid791211 See also 72,2 Goda note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 22\tab SAINT-EVROULT.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Saint-Evroult-Notre-Dame-du-Bois in the d\'e9partement of Orne, France. See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 
i. no. 140, for the grant of Roel by King William 'from his lordship' in 1081 to Saint-Evroult. It was founded in 1050 by Hugh of Grandmesnil (later sheriff of Leicestershire) and his brother Robert. For details of the monastery, see the Ecclesiastical Hi
story by Orderic Vitalis who was a deacon, then priest there (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 23\tab CHURCH OF CAEN. In the d\'e9partement of Calvados, France. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 S}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  Trinit }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
was no doubt interlined in 23,1 because a need was felt to differentiate this church from that of Saint-Etienne of Caen which held land in Dorset, Devon, etc. (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 23,1\tab PINBURY. See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
i. no. 149, for William and Matilda's charter of 1082 granting this manor (and others, including Minchinhampton: 23,2) to the Abbey of La Trinit\'e9, Caen, 'with their appurtenances, as quit as they were' in 1066. This nunnery was founded }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1066 by Queen Matilda (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 23,2\tab MINCHINHAMPTON. For the grant by King William and his wife Matilda, see 23,1 Pinbury note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab COUNTESS GODA. See 72,2 Goda note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 24\tab T
HE THREE TRANSPOSITION SIGNS beside this chapter and chapters 25 and 26 are written completely in red ink, those beside 27,1 and its continuation at the foot of the column are only rubricated. Farley prints 'hands' for all five signs; in the manuscript th
ey are all }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 psi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (}{\i\f706\cf1\insrsid791211 \'f8}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 signs (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab CHURCH OF TROARN.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  A Benedictine Abbey founded in 1050 by Roger of Montgommery (later Earl of Shrewsbury). It is in the d\'e9partement of Calvados, France (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 24,1\tab HORSLEY ... 10 HIDES. Only 7 hides paid tax; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 see Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. no. 411, for a writ by}{\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 William II dated 1094-98, addressed to Walter, sheriff of Gloucestershire, stating that Horsley was to be 'rated and quit at 7 hides for all claims' as in the time of William I (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab [* COUNTESS *] GODA, KIN
G EDWARD'S SISTER. See 72,2 Goda note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 5 SMALLHOLDERS. The scribe originally wrote }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ii. bord' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and corrected the figure first to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 vi.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , then to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 v. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 25\tab TRANSPOSITION SIGN. See GLS 24 signs note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab CHURCH OF CIRENCESTER. A college of secular canons of which Reinbald (see GLS 26 Reinbald note) was said by Leland, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Itinerary}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
v. p. 62, to have been the dean or provost. This land here and the villager and part of the woodland in Painswick (39,8) are the total of this church's holdings in 1086. In 113
3 Henry I founded a new church of St Mary at Cirencester, granting it all the lands held formerly by Reinbald the priest: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Monasticon Anglicanum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. p. 177 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 25,1\tab 
2 HIDES. These formed the original glebe of the parish church of St John, Cirencester, that is, Cirencester Rectory (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 26\tab TRANSPOSITION SIGN. See GLS 24 signs note (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab REINBALD THE PRIEST. Reinbald, or Regenbald, was the first chancellor of England; also called Reinbald of Cirencester (BRK 61); see GLS 25 church note. He held lands al
so in Berkshire, Dorset, Herefordshire, Buckinghamshire, Somerset and Wiltshire. A copy of the declaration by King Edward, dated 1042-1066, that Reinbald was to have judicial and financial rights over his land and men 'as fully and completely as any of hi
s predecessors in the days of King Cnut', and a copy of King William's confirmation of this, appear in Phillipps, 'Three Inedited Saxon Charters', p. 256; in }{\i\insrsid791211 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\insrsid791211  }{
\insrsid791211 i. no. 19, and Harmer, }{\i\insrsid791211 Anglo-Saxon-Writs}{\insrsid791211 , no. 44. For Reinbald, see also Round, }{\i\insrsid791211 Feudal England}{\insrsid791211 , pp. 421-30; }{\i\insrsid791211 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{
\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\insrsid791211  }{\insrsid791211 i. pp. xiii, xv; Stevenson, 'Charter of William the Conqueror', p. 731 note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 26,1\tab AMPNEY [ST MARY]. It}{\cf1\insrsid791211  included part of Ampney Crucis to the north and Harnhill to the west (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 26,2\tab 
ELAF <OF DRIFFIELD>. Elaf is an uncommon name, occurring on nine holdings in seven counties, all but one of them held from different tenants-in-chief. It is almost certain, t
herefore, that Reinbald's predecessor here and at Preston (26,4) are the same individual, and likely, too, that so is the Elaf at Cerney, just a few miles away. The substantial nature of all three holdings supports this conclusion. It is also possible tha
t this Elaf is the royal thane at Bengeo, in Hertfordshire (HRT 34,16), another landowner of substance; but in the absence of other associations this cannot be verified, though an identification is perhaps more likely than not (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab EARL TOSTI. Brother of 
Earl Harold; Earl of Northumbria after Siward's death in 1055 until his expulsion in 1065; killed in the battle of Stamford Bridge on 25th September 1066 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 8 VILLAGERS. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 vi. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 with }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ii }{\cf1\insrsid791211 interlined to correct the number to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 viii. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 26,3\tab REINBALD ... 1 HIDE IN NORCOTE. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Norcote was a hamlet of Preston and Reinbald's 1 hide was amalgamated with his main manor of Preston (26,4) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 26,4\tab ELAF <OF DRIFFIELD>. See 26,2 Elaf note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
BESIDES THE LORDSHIP [LAND]. The implication is that there are also lordship hides in Preston, number unspecified, which as usual do not pay tax (see 39,6). Also occurs in 39,17 and 66,5 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 27\tab THE CHAPTER NUMBER was originally written }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xxv }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 corrected to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xxvii}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 presumably when the rubricator realized that the scribe had written the}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 holdings of Cirencester Church and Reinbald the priest out of place; compare GLS 28 chapter note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab TRANSPOSITION SIGN. See GLS 24 signs note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab EARL ROGER.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Roger of Montgomery, Earl of Shrewsbury from 1074 (or perhaps as}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 early as 1071 when he received lands there on the death of Earl Edwin) until his death in}{
\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1094; he also received lands at Arundel and Chichester, according to Orderic Vitalis, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ecclesiastical History}{\cf1\insrsid791211  (Chibnall ii. pp. 262-63).}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
See Mason, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Roger de Montgomery }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 27,1\tab TUROLD, WIGOT'S NEPHEW. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Wigot of Wallingford; see Freeman, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 History of the Norman Conquest}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , iv. Appendix: Note C p. 734 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THE LAST LINE OF THIS ENTRY is added later in paler ink below the marginal rulings,}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 extending some seven letters into the left margin (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 28\tab THE CHAPTER NUMBER was originally written }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xxvi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 corrected to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xxviii}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  
}{\cf1\insrsid791211 presumably when the rubricator realised that the scribe had written the}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 holdings of Cirencester Church and Reinbald the priest out of place; compare GLS 27 chapter note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab EARL HUGH. Hugh of Avranches, nephew of King William; Earl of Chester 1071/77 to 1101. His daughter Matilda married Count Robert of Mortain and his sister Count William of Eu (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 28,1\tab ROBERT [* OF RHUDDLAN *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Probably Robert of Tilleul, Earl Hugh's cousin [also known as Robert of Rhuddlan from the castle and borough, attached to Cheshire, of which he held half under Earl Hugh (CHS FT2,1)]; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, xi. p. 12 (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab Robert came from Tilleul-en-Auge, in the French d\'e9
partement of Calvados (arrondissement Lisieux, canton Saint-Pierre-sur-Dives, commune Saint-Georges-en Auge). He was son of Humphrey of Tilleul and Adelina, the daughter of Havise (daughter of Giro
ie) and Robert of Grandmesnil who was himself the father of the Domesday tenant-in-chief Hugh of Grandmesnil. After the death of William the Conqueror, Robert supported Robert Curthose and participated with the Montgomerys in the siege of Rochester. He wa
s killed soon afterwards (1093 x 1094) on campaign in Wales; see Loyd, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Some Anglo-Norman Families}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 85; Keats-Rohan, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday People}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 379.}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 28,2\tab THERE ALSO. That is, in Bisley Hundred, the list of manors in this hundred having been interrupted by the marginal entries for Longtree Hundred (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab THROUGHAM. For Througham and Edgeworth (28,3) '}{\cf1\insrsid791211 Evesham M109-110' repeat the hidages of Domesday, but 'Evesham K157' has 'At }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Troham }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1 \'bd
 hides', with no mention of Edgeworth, apparently including the \'bd hide in Edgeworth with the hide at Througham (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 28,3\tab THERE ALSO. See 28,2 there note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \'bd HIDE AT EDGEWORTH. Probably at Westwood. Roger of Lacy's claim succeeded, since in 1130 the Lacy manor of Painswick, including Edgeworth, by then in the king's hands, was rated at 3 hides, that is, 1 (39,8) + \'bd
 (28,3) + 1 \'bd (39,9); see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Pipe Roll 31 Henry 1}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 80; Wightman, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Lacy Family}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 148, 248-49 (JSM).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab See also 28,2 Througham note.}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 28,5\tab 
THIS ENTRY and the next (28,6), added later in the margin, are pr
obably an explanation of 28,7 which does not place the 4 hides nor give the size of Alnoth's and Leofwin's holdings. ('Evesham K159' supports this view with just one entry for Earl Hugh in Longtree Hundred: the 4 hides in Westonbirt; see \{Appendix\}
.) The scribe of 'Evesham M108;l12' (see \{Appendix\}
) appears to have misunderstood Domesday, giving the 3 hides in Westonbirt (28,5) as separate from the 4 hides in Longtree Hundred (28,7) and ignoring altogether Leofwin's hide in 28,6. Alnoth's 3 hides became the
 main manor of Westonbirt, and Leofwin's hide became Minchin's Farm in Westonbirt; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, xi. pp. 285-87, 291. By 1285 'Weston Dovel' in Westonbirt (32,4) had been amalgamated with Westonbirt (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ALNOTH [* EDNOTH THE CONSTABLE *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Probably Alnoth/Ednoth the constable, Earl Hugh's predecessor in many other}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
counties, who was killed in battle against Earl Harold's sons in 1067; see SOM 18,1 Ednoth note and SOM 39,1 Alnoth note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab \tab Ednoth, named Ednoth the constable (}{\i\insrsid791211 Ednod}{\insrsid791211  }{\i\insrsid791211 Stalre}{\insrsid791211 ) in BRK 7,7 and Ednoth the steward (}{\i\insrsid791211 Ednod dapifer}{\insrsid791211 
) in WIL 22,5, was one of the predecessors of Earl Hugh of Chester, which permits the identification of many of those holdings where he is named simply Ednoth. He has also been plausibly identified as the Ednoth
 of Ugford in Wiltshire and of Whitchurch in Hampshire. In many instances, however, Earl Hugh's predecessor is called Alnoth}{\i\insrsid791211  (Alnod, Elnod}{\insrsid791211 
), and scholarly opinion is divided as to whether this is the same individual as Ednoth. Since Ednoth the constable had a son Harding (William of Malmesbury, }{\i\insrsid791211 Gesta regum}{\insrsid791211 , p. 471), and Harding son of Alnoth (}{
\i\insrsid791211 Harding filius Alnod}{\insrsid791211 ) held land in Wiltshire in 1086 (SOM 47,3-8), the identity of Ednoth and Alnoth seems probable, further strengthened by the appearance of a Ceolre
d - a rare name - among the dependents of both Harding son of Alnoth and Harding son of Ednoth: Lewis, }{\cf17\insrsid791211 'Formation of the Honour of Chester',}{\insrsid791211  pp. 67-68; Williams, }{\i\insrsid791211 The English and the Norman Conquest
}{\insrsid791211 , pp. 119-22. As Dr Williams has pointed out, a similar scribal confusion between Alnoth and Ednoth can be detected in Cornwall and Lincolnshire (}{\i\insrsid791211 ibid}{\insrsid791211 
., p. 121 note 127). A like confusion may account for the omission of Ednoth's lands in Devon and Dorset from Peter Clarke's lists, along with Knowle, Ugford and Whitchurch: Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 , pp. 281-82 (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 28,6\tab 
THE ENTRY is added in the margin, probably as an explanation of 28,7; see 28,5 entry note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 28,7\tab ALNOTH [* EDNOTH THE CONSTABLE *]. See 28,5 Alnoth note }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM)}{\insrsid791211 .}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THERE WAS NO ONE TO MAKE A RETURN
. Compare 1,63 and 75,2 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 29\tab 
COUNT OF MORTAIN. Robert, half brother of King William and younger brother of Bishop Odo of Bayeux. He held more land in England than any other follower of King William (see Freeman, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 History of the Norman Conquest}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , iv. p. 762), especially in Cornwall and other south-west counties. See SOM 19,1 count note. Mortain (not mentioned in Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ) is in the d\'e9
partement of Manche, France (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 29,1\tab LONGBOROUGH.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 The land was Banks Fee (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 30\tab GILBERT, BISHOP OF LISIEUX. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Gilbert Maminot, King William's doctor and chaplain, Bishop of Lisieux 1077-1101; see Orderic Vitalis, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ecclesiastical History}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 (Chibnall, iii. pp. 18-21). Lisieux is in the d\'e9partement of Calvados, France (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 30,1\tab RODMARTON. The main manor of Rodmarton; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. pp. 236-40. Hugh Maminot was Bishop Gilbert's son; see Sanders, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 English Baronies}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 97 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 31\tab WILLIAM OF EU. William, Count of Eu, second son of Count Robert of Eu, which is in the d\'e9partement of Seine
-Maritime, France. See W16 William note . His second wife was the sister of Earl Hugh of Chester. He rebelled against William Rufus in 1088 and in 1094 and was charged with treason in 1096, was blinded and castrated and probably died soon after; Orderic V
italis, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ecclesiastical History}{\cf1\insrsid791211  (Chibnall, iv. pp. 284-85) (JSM)}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 31,1\tab VINEYARD. 2 "ARPENTS".}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 An "arpent"}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 was a French measure of uncertain and probably}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
variable size, usually applied in Domesday to vineyards, but occasionally to meadow and woodland; see WIL 12,4 "arpent" note. This is the only reference to vineyards in Gloucestershire (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 31,2\tab 'ALVERSTON'. It was a site at Brookend and Plusterwine in Woolaston (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. pp. 103, 107-108), not, as usually identif
ied, Allaston in Lydney, which is to be identified as 37,5 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab BONDI [* THE CONSTABLE *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Probably Bondi the constable (on whom see BDF 57,4 Bondi note); Freeman, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 History of the Norman Conquest}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , v. p. 771; }{\insrsid791211 
von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid791211 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211  p. 206 note 2. Bondi was the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 T.R.E.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 holder of some of Henry of Ferrers' lands in Northamptonshire, Berkshire and Oxfordshire (JSM)}{\insrsid791211 
\par \tab \tab Bondi is named as the constable on the fiefs of William son of Ansculf (BUK 17,9), the Count of Mortain (BUK
 12,29), and Henry of Ferrers (BUK 27,1), though named Boding the constable in Henry's case. This was certainly Bondi, however, since Henry succeeded him in four other counties and laid claim in a fifth here as Bondi's successor. Apart from other the link
s through the Count of Mortain and William son of Ansculf, it is probable that the Bondi who held manors valued at over \'a3
10 was, in most, of not all cases, the constable; and his status as a lord of men identifies him at Colemore in Hampshire (HAM 57,2), an
d therefore probably on the adjacent holding at Empshott (HAM 62,1). Finally, the Bondi who preceded Countess Judith in several of her holdings in Northamptonshire may also have been the constable. There can be little doubt that the Countess had only one 
predecessor named Bondi, five of his seven holdings being centred on Earls Barton, held with full jurisdiction, the whole complex worth \'a3
16. Its status certainly befitted someone of the constable's status, and Earls Barton was just a couple of miles from hi
s manor at Ecton, acquired by Henry of Ferrers. Some further, if slight support, for this identification is supplied by Orderic Vitalis, according to whom Earl Waltheof granted the manor of Barnack to Crowland Abbey, a gift later defeated by 'the malice o
f the Normans' (}{\i\insrsid791211 Ecclesiastical History}{\insrsid791211 
, ed. Chibnall, ii. pp 344-45). Barnack was held in Domesday Book by William son of Ansculf, as noted above the constable's predecessor elsewhere. He may, therefore, have stepped into Waltheof's shoes in those cases, to
o, Waltheof being the first to succeed to those estates of the constable. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 , pp. 266-67, whose list omits ESS 29,5. HAM 57,2. 62,1. IoW9,15. NTH 36,2. 56,15-18;37-38;53 (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 31,4\tab ALSTAN [* OF BOSCOMBE *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Alstan here and in
 31,7;10-11 is clearly the great Anglo-Saxon thane Alstan of Boscombe (compare 58,4) whose lands in Gloucestershire and elsewhere in England were first granted to Ralph of Lim\'e9sy and then to William of Eu (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par \tab \tab See BDF 18,2 Alstan note for further detail (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab FOREST. Medieval Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 foresta }{\cf1\insrsid791211 from }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 foris }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
('outside') means land, not necessarily wooded, beyond the bounds of the manor or village. This is the Forest of Dean. In 1086 a large tract of woodland joined Dean to Wyre Forest via Malvern Chase. See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Worcestershire}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , ii. p. 197 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 31,5\tab WOOLASTON.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  This later absorbed William of Eu's 2 hides (1,64) and Roger of Lacy's \'bd hide (39,10) at Madgett (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 31,6\tab IN TIDENHAM 1 \'bd VIRGATES. The land was at 
Stroat, later reabsorbed in the main manor of Tidenham (1,56) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 31,7\tab 'DUNTISBOURNE'. Amalgamated with 32,2 to form the manor of Daglingworth, the church of which was a chapelry of Duntisbourne minster (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ALSTAN [* OF BOSCOMBE *]. See 31,4 Alstan note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab RALPH [* BLOIET *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 Most probably Ralph Bloiet [rendered as Blewitt, the modern form of the name, in the Phillimore printed edition] who held two manors in Somerset (SOM 26,3;5; his byname supplied in the corresponding entry in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Liber Exoniensis}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ) and one in Hampshire (HAM 32,4) from William of Eu, which had been held }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 T.R.E.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 by Alstan of Boscombe (see 31,4 Alstan note). The Bloiets were later lords of both Daglingworth and the Somerset and Hampshire manors mentioned (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 31,8\tab IN TARLTON 1 HIDE. Later combined with Culkerton (31,10) as the manor of Tarlton; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. pp. 236-40 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 31,9\tab `SHIPTON [DOVEL]'. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 In Shipton Moyne. It is a lost place near Estcourt (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
i. p. 108): possibly therefore to be identified as Hill Court (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab [* EARL *] HUGH. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Hugh is probably William of Eu's brother-in-law, Earl Hugh of Chester (Sanders, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 English Baronies}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, pp. 119-20): in the thirteenth century 'Shipton Dovel' was held of the Earldom of Chester: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. p. 252 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 31,10\tab CULKERTON.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See 31,8 Tarlton note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab SHEERWOLD <OF GOTHERS>. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
The name Sheerwold occurs fourteen times in Domesday Book or }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Exon}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ., four times as the predecessor of the Count of Mortain in Cornwall (5,24,10), Dorset (DOR 26,1
4;54), and Somerset (SOM 19,1). In 1086 he continued to hold Gothers from the Count. The Mortain manor in Somerset is adjacent to William of Mohun's manor of Leigh, held by Sheerwold in 1066; and the two Devon manors of Sheerwold held by Haimeric of Arque
s
 and Odo son of Gamelin in 1086 lay on the route from Gothers to the Mortain manors in Somerset and Dorset. It seems likely that all these properties had been held by one individual in 1066. There are no apparent links with the remaining holdings in Somer
set, Gloucestershire and Wiltshire; but given the rarity of the name and its restricted distribution, it is possible that all were held by the same individual in 1066. }{\insrsid791211 See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid791211 Domesday People}{
\insrsid791211 , p. 421 (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ALSTAN [* OF BOSCOMBE *]. See 31,4 Alstan note (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 31,11\tab 
ALSTAN [* OF BOSCOMBE *]. See 31,4 Alstan note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 31,12\tab [LOWER] SWELL.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 Reunited in the twelfth century with 45,6: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. p. 167 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ERNSI <OF PAINSWICK>. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernesi}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 In }{\insrsid791211 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid791211 
Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 , p. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 243, the Domesday form }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernesi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is taken to represent Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Earnsige}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
; in note 2 there v}{\insrsid791211 on Feilitzen}{\cf1\insrsid791211  notes that Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernesi}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , on Gloucestershire folio 167 (= 31,12) is the same man as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernsius }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
(literally }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Erusio}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , ablative case) son of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Oca }{\cf1\insrsid791211 mentioned in}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 1055 (Kemble, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Codex Diplomaticus}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , no. 801 =}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Sawyer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Anglo-Saxon Charters}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , no.1026), that is, Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Earnsige}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; and that Domesday }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernesi}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , Gloucestershire folio 168 (= 45,6) is the same as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Arnisius }{\cf1\insrsid791211 son of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ealdgyth}{\cf1\insrsid791211  who occurs}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  c}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1070 in the Evesham Chronicle (Macray, p. 94), perhaps a badly Latinized form for Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Earnsige }{\cf1\insrsid791211 since he seems heir to an English-named mother. However, the form }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Arnisius }{\cf1\insrsid791211 could also indicate that she had named her boy with the French name }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Erneis }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (Old German }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernegis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see }{
\insrsid791211 Forssner, }{\i\insrsid791211 Continental-Germanic Personal Names}{\insrsid791211 , p. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 82), for von Feilitzen's note observes that the Latinized form }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernisius }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
is usually taken to represent Old French }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Erneis }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in sources later than Domesday; }{\insrsid791211 Forssner, }{\i\insrsid791211 Continental-Germanic Personal Names}{\insrsid791211 , p. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
82 also records }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Erneisus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 from Domesday, and Middle English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Aernisius}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernisius}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Hernesius}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , for Old French }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Erneis }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab Sir Iain Moncreiffe of that Ilk in correspondence concerning the holdings of Drogo fitz Pons,
 who was closely associated with Ralph of Tosny in Gloucestershire and Herefordshire and whose lands became the Clifford estates (see Ellis, }{\i\insrsid791211 General Introduction to Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 i. 405 note 9) points out that, with one small exception, between them Drogo and Ralph held all Ernesi's }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 T.R.E.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 lands (for Ralph of Tosny also held Ernesi's former estate in Worcestershire); that in view of the rarity of the personal-names }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Erneis }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Pons }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
in Norman records, Drogo fitz Pons's father, who received lands at the Conqu
est (he endowed Westminster Abbey, see BRK 30,1 under Walter son of Poyntz) but died before the Domesday Survey and may reasonably be identified as the Pons who witnessed Ducal charters for F\'e9
camp 1025 and 1066, was possibly a near relation, perhaps an uncle by marriage, of the only other Pons to appear in the charters of the Dukes of Normandy 911-1066, namely a monk at Saint-Wandrille in Normandy }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
. 1049-1066, the brother of Robert fitz Erneis and therefore son of Erneis Taisson, the Norman seigneur of Fontenay, who was the only Erneis to appear in these Ducal charters 911-1066, for example, that Pons may have married Erneis's sister, since he was 
apparently not his brother; and that the repeated association of Drogo }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 fitz Pons T.R.W}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . with estates of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernesi T.R.E.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 therefore suggests that this Ernesi may possibly have been }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Erneis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , a Norman, not an Englishman }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Earnsige }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab Whether or not this will be proved on genealogical grounds, a question is raised about the name-form. Also, the Domesday spelling }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernesi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 with persistent medial }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 -e- }{\cf1\insrsid791211 favours Old French }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Erneis }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (Old German }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernegis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
as von Feilitzen's note hints. It would seem prudent to explain the Domesday form as either Old French }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Erneis }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (Old German }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernegis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 or Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Earnsige}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , leaving the choice open to definition by contextual or external evidence; and to bear in mind that Old French }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Erneis }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
and Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Earnsige }{\cf1\insrsid791211 would both be rather rare personal-names at the time of Domesday, likely to be confused with each other, especially in their respective Latinized forms }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernesius }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ernsius }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab \tab According to Finberg, }{\i\insrsid791211 
Early Charters of the West Midlands}{\insrsid791211 , no. 171 pp. 71-72, with reference to the Evesham Chronicle (Macray, pp. 45, 46, 94), }{\i\insrsid791211 Arnisius}{\insrsid791211 
 son of Ealdgyth had promised her land in Swell (Upper Swell: 12,5) to Evesham Abbey, but her son Earnsige (}{\i\insrsid791211 Arnisius}{\insrsid791211 ) frustrated the bequest; however, after a lawsuit between Evesham Abbey and }{\i\insrsid791211 Ernsius
}{\insrsid791211  (mistranscribed by Kemble, }{\i\insrsid791211 Codex Diplomaticus}{\insrsid791211 , no. 801, as }{\i\insrsid791211 Erusio}{\insrsid791211 , ablative) King Edward took Swell into his hands and sold it to Evesham Abbey. }{\i\insrsid791211 
Arnisius}{\insrsid791211  and }{\i\insrsid791211 Ernsius}{\insrsid791211  are thus the same person. Finberg states that in Domesday Earnsige (}{\i\insrsid791211 Ernesi}{\insrsid791211 
) had possessed lands in Painswick (39,8), Frampton-on-Severn (54,1), Eyford (66,3), Aston Somerville (66,4), Siddington (66,5) and Miserden (66,6), as well as the present holding in Lower Swell and one there at 45,6. As the only other occurrences of an }
{\i\insrsid791211 Ernesi}{\insrsid791211 
 in Domesday are in WOR 15,9 and HEF 1,20;30, 10,68, and as Ralph of Tosny succeeded to his land in Worcestershire as he did here (45,6, where Drogo (son of Poyntz) was Ralph's subtenant) and Drogo was his successor in HEF 1,30 
as here in 54,1, it seems likely that the same person was involved. The name-form has been taken to represent Old English }{\i\insrsid791211 Earnsige}{\insrsid791211 
 in all these cases; Ernsi is JRM's version of this name, as being closer to the Domesday forms. In the Phillimore printed edi
tion John Moore has Erneis. The Alecto edition has Earnsige for all the Gloucestershire, Worcestershire and Herefordshire 1066 holders.}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 32,1\tab 
2 HIDES IN CIRENCESTER. Chesterton in Cirencester (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab HUGH [* OF LACY *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Hugh could well be Hugh of Lacy, whos
e mother and brother held the adjoining manors of Stratton and Siddington Langley (39,17-18). In the thirteenth century both Chesterton and Siddington Langley were held by the Langley family (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 1 \'bd VILLAGERS. This may well be an error for '1 half-villager'; see W1 half-villagers note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 32,2\tab 'DUNTISBOURNE'. See 31,7 'Duntisbourne' note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab KETIL}{\cf1\insrsid791211  AND AELFRIC. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Chetel 7}{\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Aluric}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; Farley omitted the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 7}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 in error (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 32,3\tab SIDDINGTON [HOUSE].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  This estate comprised that part of Siddington east of the River Churn (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 32,4\tab `WESTON [DOVEL]'. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Later amalgamated with the main manor of Westonbirt; see 28,5 entry note. Compare 'Evesham K187' and 'Evesham M135'; see \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 32,6\tab ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See 1,45 Alwin note (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab See also 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 32,7\tab WULFHEAH.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  In the manuscript after }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Vlfeg }{\cf1\insrsid791211 something had been written, then erased, leaving the line which had been drawn under it (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THESE THANES ... WOULD. The scribe wrote this phrase after, instead of before, '5 hides which pay tax', and put transposition signs to indicate its correct position (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 32,9\tab 2 \'bd VIRGATES. Hill House in Newnham; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. pp. 36-39. 'Evesham K193' (see \{Appendix\}) implies that these 2 \'bd virgates were in Newnham, thus 
confirming this identification (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab WIHENOC. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Uncle of William son of Baderon; see the foundation charter of Monmouth Priory, founded by Wihenoc }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1075 in }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Monasticon Anglicanum}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , iv. p. 596, which is witnessed by Wihenoc's brother Baderon and, among others, Baderon's son William. See also HEF 1,48 Monmouth note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 32,10\tab NEWNHAM. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Hyde in Newnham; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. pp. 36-39 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 32,11\tab `[LITTLE] LYDNEY'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  The place is so named to distinguish it from the main manor of Lydney (1,55) and was renamed St Briavels in the thirteenth century (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 32,12\tab 
FOREST. That is, the Forest of Dean; see 31,4 forest note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 32,13\tab 
THIS ENTRY is written at the bottom of folio 167a, in the space usually left after the end of a chapter, but not written below the marginal rulings (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab [LOWER] HAMPEN. See 2,6 manor note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab GEOFFREY. Probably the same man who held the adjoining manors of Farmcote (34,7),}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Shipton Oliffe (38,4) and Lower Turkdean (38,5) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 33\tab WILLIAM THE CHAMBERLAIN. He also held land in Bedfordshire and Buckinghamshire (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 34\tab WILLIAM GOIZENBODED. Son of Richard; see 34,8 Richard note. Goizenboded is an unexplained byname: Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 390. The ending is }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 -boded}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , past participle of Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 bodian }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('to announce, to foretell'). }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Goizen- }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is perhaps }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Guizen-}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, a French form of Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 wiccan }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('witch'), where }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 w }{\cf1\insrsid791211 has become }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 gu }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (as in Modern French}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  guerre }
{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('war') from Old German }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 werra}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ), a common feature of Central French, sometimes found in Anglo-Norman, and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 z }{\cf1\insrsid791211 represents the sounds [ts] or [t}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 \u383\'3f}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ], a French rendering of Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 -cc-}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The name may thus be Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 wiccanboded}{
\cf1\insrsid791211  ('foretold by a witch' or 'cursed by a witch'). The byname also occurs as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Guezenboeth }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in 'Worcester D' (see WOR \{Appendix\}) and as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Cunteboiz' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
in 'Evesham N14', and as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Guiz in bod' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in 'Evesham K116'; see \{Appendix\}(JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 34,1\tab PEBWORTH. United }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1100 with the other manor of Pebworth (62,1) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 34,2\tab EARL ALGAR. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Earl of East Anglia 1051-52 and 1053-57, then Earl of 
Mercia 1057-62. He was outlawed in 1055 and again in 1058, but won back his position on each occasion with the help of Gruffydd ap Llywelyn, King of Gwynedd and Powys. Algar was the son of Earl Leofric and the Lady (Countess) Godiva; father of Earls Edwin
 and Morcar; he died }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1062 (JSM)}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 34,3\tab HUSCARL. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Huscarle}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; Old West Scandinavian and late Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 huscarl }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('bodyguard'); see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 255-56; }{\insrsid791211 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid791211 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211  pp. 296-97. The 
word is used in some instances as a personal name, as perhaps here (and CAM 14,64; see CAM 14,64 Huscarl note), and in others as a descriptive term: 'a member of the king's bodyguard' (see 1,59;66 and MDX 7,2;8 etc.) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 34,5\tab `CALDICOTT'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  An earlier name for Westfield in Hawling and Lower Guiting (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *]. See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 34,6\tab AYLWORTH. Rose Court in Aylworth: }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. p. 80 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *]. See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 34,7\tab ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *]. See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab GEOFFREY. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
See 32,13 Geoffrey note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 34,8\tab LEASED. In the manuscript the abbreviation line, indicating an omitted }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 m}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , is over the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 o }{\cf1\insrsid791211 as well as the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 accomodavit}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , not as Farley printed it (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN HIS SHERIFF. See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab RICHARD, A YOUNG MAN. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
iuvenis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , so also WOR 25,1, as the predecessor of William Goizenboded, who is later remembered as 'William son of Richard' when land in }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Morcate}{\cf1\insrsid791211  [Moorcroft, previously Murcott]}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in Minsterworth was given for the sake of his soul to St Peter's Abbey, Gloucester; see the Gloucester History and Cartulary (Hart,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
i. pp. 99-100, ii. p. 32). William himself held Duni in Minsterworth (see 34,12 hide note). William's mother was probably not Alwin's widow, or William would still have been a minor in 1086 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 34,9\tab ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *]. See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 34,10\tab ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *]. See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 34,11\tab [LITTLE] BARRINGTON}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . So }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 19-20 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *]. See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 34,12\tab \'bd
 HIDE OF LAND. The mention of half a fishery limits the possible site of this land to the riverside in Westbury Hundred. It possibly lay at 'Duni' in Minsterworth, the only part of Minsterworth parish not a
ccounted for separately in Domesday (see 37,1 Moorcroft note and 53,1 manor note). There is evidence to associate William son of Richard (who is probably the same man as William Goizenboded, styled by Domesday as Richard's successor; see 34,8 Richard note
) with Minsterworth. 'Duni' was a small estate of about 130 acres in the extreme south of Minsterworth, separated by streams from the rest of the chapelry. The \'bd fishery may well be the '\'bd fishery at Duni' given }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1150 to St Peter's, Gloucester, according to the Gloucester Cartulary (Hart,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. 259, ii. p. 72); see}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Walker 'Charters of the Earldom of Hereford', p. 26 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN THE SHERIFF. See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 34,13\tab 
THIS ENTRY and the two following (35,1-2) are written in a cramped style, suggesting either that the scribe had not planned this folio correctly or that more information came to hand after this side}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
of the folio was completed and the other side begun (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab IN DUMBLETON 1 HIDE. 'Littleton' in Dumbleton, a name that survived until the late nineteenth century, not Littleworth in Winchcombe. See also 36,3. 53,12 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 35,1\tab THIS ENTRY is written in a cramped style; see 34,13 entry note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab DYRHAM.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  The manor of Dyrham in the parish of Dyrham and Hinton. The figure for villagers' ploughs is suspiciously low and should probably be corrected to either 7 or 12, probably either }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 v }
{\cf1\insrsid791211 or x}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 having been omitted before }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ii }{\cf1\insrsid791211 during the final compilation of Domesday (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 35,2\tab THIS ENTRY is written in a cramped style; see 34,13 entry note (JSM)}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 3 HIDES. The manor of Hinton, which later records show was approximately half the area of Dyrham manor, in the parish of Dyrham and Hinton (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 36\tab WILLIAM BREAKWOLF. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Froisseleuu}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , from Old French }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 froisser }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('to crush', 'break') and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 leuu }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ('wolf'): Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 385 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 36,1\tab WOTTON. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Vletone }{\cf1\insrsid791211 would seem to be from Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ula-tune }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('owls' village', or 'village where there are owls'), bu
t no place-name or field-name 'Owlton' can be found anywhere in 'Dudstone' Hundred. It seems more likely, therefore, that }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Vletone }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is a scribal error for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Wotone }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
(in a badly-written or damaged original return a capital }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 W }{\cf1\insrsid791211 could look like }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Vl }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and a poorly written }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 o }{\cf1\insrsid791211 like an }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 e}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
), and that Wotton, formerly known as Wotton St Mary, is the place. [Wotton St Mary was formerly a hamlet in the Ancient Parish of Gloucester St Mary de Lode and became a separate Civil Parish in 1866.] A more precise location in Wotton is pr
obably Paygrove, which was the only major holding in the Wotton area not held by St Peter's, Gloucester, in 1086, although it was later given to that abbey by Richard son of Nigel, according to the Gloucester History and Cartulary (Hart,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. pp. 107, 118, 319, ii. p. 89) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 36,2\tab IN 'WITLEY' HUNDRED. Entered in the left margin of the manuscript. This holding was joined early in the twelfth century with the Condicote outlier of Oddington (2,4) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 36,3\tab 'LITTLETON'. See 34,13 Dumbleton note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 37\tab WILLIAM SON OF NORMAN.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  He seems to have had some responsibility for supervising the Forest of Dean (see 37,3 and HEF 1,63). See also HEF 16 William note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 37,1\tab MOORCROFT. In the parish of Minsterworth, previously Murcott: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , iii. p. 163 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 37,2\tab MORGANWY. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Morganau}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , Old Welsh }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Morcenou}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , Middle Welsh }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Morganeu}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see 
}{\insrsid791211 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid791211 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 , }{\cf1\insrsid791211 p. 329 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 37,3\tab IN MITCHELDEAN 2 HIDES AND 2 \'bd VIRGATES. Possibly Mitcheldean included Abenhall and Littledean (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab GUARDING. Compare HEF 1,44 and BRK 31,3-4 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THE FOREST. That is, the Forest of Dean; see 31,4 forest note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 37,4\tab THE FOREST. That is, the Forest of Dean; see 31,4 forest note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 37,5\tab 1 HIDE AND \'bd VIRGATE. Identifiable as Allaston in Lydney. See 31,2 'Alverston' note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HELD. In the manuscript the plural }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 tenuer' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 has been corrected from the singular }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 tenuit }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 38,1\tab LECKHAMPTON. Identifiable as Broadwell in Leckhampton (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 38,4\tab 3 HIDES, LESS 1 VIRGATE. 'Evesham K217' gives the same assessment in a different form: '2 hides and 3 virgates'; see \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab GEOFFREY.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See 32,13 Geoffrey note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 38,5\tab [LOWER] TURKDEAN. Lower and Upper Turkdean (48,2) together total 11 hides; it is possible that the assessment for Lower Turkdean, whose 1086 value was lower than Upper Turkdean's, was 4 hides and 1 \'bd
 virgates, not 5 hides and 1 \'bd virgates, but the Domesday assessment is repeated by 'Evesham K218' and 'Evesham M173'; see \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab GEOFFREY. See 32,13 Geoffrey note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 39\tab ROGER OF LACY. Son of Walter of Lacy and Ermelina (Emma); see Wightman, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Lacy Family}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, pp. 167-194. The large number of lands he possessed in Gloucestershire, Herefordshire and Worcestershire made him an
 important defender of the English frontier against the Welsh; see HEF 10 Roger note. He rebelled in 1088 and in 1094, was banished in 1096 and his lands given to his brother Hugh. He died some time after 1106 in Normandy where he had obtained high office
 under Duke Robert. Lassy is in the d\'e9partement of Calvados, France (JSM)}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 39,2\tab 
THORKIL [* WHITE *]. Thorkil White and his wife Leoffled are both named in late Anglo-Saxon lawsuits (Sawyer, nos. 1462 and 1469) which refer to his manor of Wellington (HEF 29,1
1). Since Thorkil is named elsewhere as the predecessor of Hugh the ass (HEF 1,65) and the bulk of Hugh's fief came to him from a Leoffled and a Thorkil (named Thorkil White in several entries), there is little doubt as to the identify of the Thorkils who
 
preceded Hugh in Gloucestershire and Herefordshire. It is likely that the Thorkil whose estates were acquired by Roger of Lacy and William son of Baderon was the same man. The majority had been held from Earl Harold, and all were intermingled with the oth
er estates of Thorkil White and his wife. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 , pp. 345-46, whose list omits GLS 39,2 and HEF 1,65 (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 39,4\tab `ICOMB [PLACE]'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 Combined with 53,8 as the 'Icomb Place' estate, still held from two different lords as late as 1331. 
The second manorial site in the Gloucestershire part of Icomb was at 'Icomb Proper', west of Icomb village, where a series of 'Court' field-names survived down to the nineteenth century (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 39,5\tab [WICK] RISSINGTON. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 So }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 100, 108, 115, not Little Rissington, as Taylor, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 257, 261.}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab HUGH [* OF LACY *]. Here and in 39,16 Hugh is probably Roger's brother and successor, Hugh of Lacy; see }{\i\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\insrsid791211 , vi. p. 115 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab VALUE ... \'a37 10[s]. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 7}{\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 x lib' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is written slightly below the line on which }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 vii lib' }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 and the rest were written, perhaps indicating that it was added later. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 lib' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 no doubt an error for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 sol' }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 39,6\tab PASTURE. One of the few references to pasture in Domesday Gloucestershire; it would seem that for some reason either no normal record of pasture was made for this county or that it was 'deliberately excluded' (}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Geography of Midland England}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 35). Domesday Herefordshire (see HEF 1,5 pasture note) likewise has only two mentions of pasture (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 39,7\tab GILBERT [* OF ESKECOT *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Gilbert de Eskecot who gave this land to St Peter's Abbey, Gloucester, in 1100, according to the Gloucester History (Hart,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
i. p. 73)); it was then amalgamated with Duntisbourne Abbots (10,13) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab 
KENWARD. The name Kenward occurs seven times in Domesday Book, on holdings which cluster near the borders of Gloucestershire, Warwickshire, and Worcestershire. Three devolved upon Gilbert son of Thorold who is unlikely to have had thr
ee predecessors with this uncommon name; the three others, subinfeudated by the Bishop of Worcester to Robert the bursar, are equally unlikely to have been held by different individuals. Gilbert's holdings lay either side of Robert's, while the seventh pr
operty was adjacent to Gilbert's holding at Oakley. It is probable therefore that all seven holdings had belonged to the same individual in 1066 (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
THE VALUE IS AND WAS 40s. Or possibly 'value 40s; the value was \'a3 }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 n}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ' or 'the same'. The dot after }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ualuit}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , however, suggests that }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ualuit }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 was simply omitted after }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Val'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , not that the scribe intended to fill in a past value later (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 39,8\tab ERNSI <OF PAINSWICK>. See 31,12 Ernsi note.}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab A PRIEST. In the manuscript and Farley }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pbr }{\cf1\insrsid791211 with an abbreviation line through the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 b}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; the facsimile fails to reproduce half the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 r }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ST MARY'S OF CIRENCESTER}{\cf1\insrsid791211  HOLDS. The land held by Cirencester Abbey has been identified as Stroudend in the south of Painswick: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. p. 68 (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 39,9\tab EDGEWORTH. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See 28,3 Edgeworth note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 3 SMALLHOLDERS. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ii }{\cf1\insrsid791211 corrected to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 iii }{\cf1\insrsid791211 with }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 es }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 tres}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 added above to clarify the correction (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 39,10\tab [IN WYVERN HUNDRED]. The insertion of the hundredal rubric is based o
n the inclusion of Madgett in this hundred in 1,64. This portion of Madgett was amalgamated in the twelfth century with William of Eu's manors of Madgett (1,64) and Woolaston (31,5) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 39,11\tab IN TIDENHAM \'bd HIDE. This holding was at Stroat, later reabsorbed into the main manor of Tidenham (1,56) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 39,12\tab 1 BURGESS WHO PAYS 4 PLOUGHSHARES. 4 burgesses pay 18 ploughshares (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 socos carrucis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
in HEF 1,7, and a house in Worcester similarly pays 2 ploughshares (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 uomeres}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (HEF 1,41). See also 68,4 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 39,13\tab WILLIAM [* DEVEREUX *]. William}{\cf1\insrsid791211  has been identified as William Devereux; see Wightman,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  Lacy Family}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 144, 154 note 5 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 39,14\tab HATHEROP. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 This holding is later known as Williamstrip derived from the subtenant, William Devereux, whose family held it until the fourteenth century (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab WILLIAM [* DEVEREUX *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See 39,13 William note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 39,15\tab WINDRUSH.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Hungerford in Windrush; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 179-80 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 39,16\tab ALSO ... THERE. Pinchpool in Windrush; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 179-80 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab HUGH [* OF LACY *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See 39,5 Hugh note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 39,17\tab BESIDES THE LORDSHIP [LAND]. See 26,4 lordship note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 39,18\tab SIDDINGTON. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Siddington Langley manor in Siddington St Peter parish, centred on Home Close at the north end of Lower Siddington village (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab HIS MOTHER. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Ermelina (Emma), wife of Walter of Lacy; see Wightman, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Lacy Family}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 168-69 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 39,19\tab OAKLEY. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Coates 'Randulf' in Oakley, still held from the Lacy family in the 1230s (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab GERARD. Perhaps Gerard the chamberlain; or }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Girardus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 could be a mistake for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Giruius }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
('Gerwy') who holds Coates Cockerell in Oakley in 67,3 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 39,20\tab HIS MOTHER. See 39,18 mother note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab [UPPER] SLAUGHTER. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The assessment of Upper Slaughter was increased to 5 hides, and that of Lower Quinton (62,4) reduced from 12 hides, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1097: 'Evesham N11' in the \{
Appendix\} (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab KING'S USE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ad opus regis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; or perhaps 'for the king's work'. Compare HEF 1,2 'Value of what the sheriff has for his use ...'. See SOM 6,1 use note and 'Worcester H2' in the WOR \{App
endix\}. Compare also the example quoted in GLS 52 Gilbert note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 39,21\tab ARCOLD. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ercold}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 us]}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 180 (JSM)}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 40\tab ROGER OF BEAUMONT. Roger, who also held land in Dorset (DOR 28), appears to have been an old man by the time of Domesday. About 1094 he entered the monastery of Saint-Pierre at Pr\'e9
aux, which his father Humphrey of Vieilles had founded }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1034. He died some years later; see Orderic Vitalis, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ecclesiastical History}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 (Chibnall, ii. pp. 12-13, iv. pp. 302-305). Roger's son Robert inherited the title of the Count of Meulan through his mother Adelina. Another son Henry became Earl of Warwick }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . l089. Beaumont is mo
st probably Beaumont-le-Roger in the d\'e9partement of Eure, France; see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 71 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 40,1\tab ROBERT [* THE BUTLER *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Probably Robert the butler, ancestor of the Botelers who appear to have held Dorsington in the twelfth century; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Warwickshire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, v. p. 199. Or, possibly, Roger's son Robert, Count of Meulan, although one would expect the scribe to have added 'his son', but see}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
34,8 where William Goizenboded is not called Richard's son but his successor) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 41\tab ROGER OF IVRY. He was married to Azelina (Adeline), a daughter of Hugh of}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Grandmesnil: Orderic Vitalis, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ecclesiastical History}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 (Chibnall, iv. pp. 230-31). See W1 Roger note. Ivry-la-Bataille is in the d\'e9partement of Eure, France; see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 93 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 41,3\tab [TETBURY] UPTON. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Later absorbed in Tetbury (41,2); see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. pp. 236-40 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 41,4\tab CULKERTON. Later absorbed in Tetbury (41,2); see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. pp. 236-40 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab AELFRIC. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Aluric }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in the manuscript and Farley; the Ordnance Survey facsimile reproduces the name as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Alliric}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , or possibly }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Allinc }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 41,5\tab HAZLETON. The main manor of Hazleton; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. pp. 236-40 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HALF-VILLAGERS. See W1 half-villagers note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 42\tab ROGER OF BERKELEY. An important man in Gloucestershire; the 'reeve of Berkeley' in 1,16, he also appears to have collected the revenue from Barton Regis (1,21). Died 1093 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 42,2\tab DODINGTON. For the '2 parts of \'bd hide' being equivalent to one-third of a hide and the two portions of Dodington (6,9. 42,2) making a 5-hide unit, see 6,9 Dodington note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *]. See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 43,1\tab WAPLEY. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Amalgamated in the thirteenth century with the main estate in Wapley and Codrington centred on Codrington Court (1,9) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 44\tab RALPH PAYNEL. The }{\cf1\insrsid791211 sheriff of Yorkshire in 1088. His byname is the diminutive form of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pagen }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('a villager', 'heathen', from Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 paganus}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , 'member of a}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  pagus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('village' or 'country district') whence Modern French }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 paysan }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('peasant', countryman') and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 paien }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ('pagan'). The latter is rendered in this series as 'Payne', as in 70,1 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 44,1\tab TARLTON. This entry and the following one for a nameless 1 \'bd virgates are combined in 'Evesham K289' as 'In Longtree Hundred: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Torentone }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (Tarlton) 4 \'bd hides and 1 \'bd
 virgates'; see \{Appendix\} (JSM).
\par \tab \tab Tarlton was later combined with 1,23 as the manor of Hullasey; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. pp. 236-40 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab RALPH [* OF REUILLY *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Ralph was probably Ralph of Reuilly who was Ralph Paynel's subtenant in four out of his five Somerset manors (SOM 31,1-4) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab MERLESWEIN [* THE SHERIFF *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 No doubt the Merleswein who was sheriff of Lincolnshire in 1066. Ralph Paynel inherited almost all his land (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab }{\insrsid791211 Identified as sheriff and off
icial predecessor of Ralph Paynel in the Claims for Lincolnshire (CW12. CK31), Merleswein was among the ten wealthiest Anglo-Saxon magnates after the great earls. He is usually described as sheriff of Lincolnshire, being named as a sheriff in the Lincolns
h
ire folios; but it would make more sense if he were sheriff of Yorkshire, where the political weight of a magnate-sheriff - the only such one in Anglo-Saxon England - would have been needed. A late tradition states that Merleswein was given an official po
sition in the north by Harold in the aftermath of Stamford Bridge: Walker, }{\i\insrsid791211 Harold}{\insrsid791211 , p. 142 (JP).
\par \tab \tab Merleswein provides the classic case of an }{\i\insrsid791211 antecessor}{\insrsid791211 
 supplying title to a Norman baron. Virtually the entire fief of Ralph Paynel came to him from his officially designated predecessor, Merleswein; and the apparent exceptions can be explained. Ralph's holding at Sandburn was illegally acquired according to
 
the Canons of York (YKS C25), while those at Broughton and Scawby (LIN 35,2;16), previously held by Grimkel, had in fact been in Merleswein's possession in 1066, granted to him by Grimkel in an attempt to evade forfeiture (LIN CW12). Ralph's only other ho
l
ding was at East Carlton (NTH 31,1), where his predecessor was a Thorkil. This may have been the exception proving the rule; but it is also possible that Merleswein was Grimkel's overlord, these not normally being recorded in the circuit (4) in which Nort
hamptonshire lay (JP).
\par \tab \tab The only holdings of Merleswein which did not devolve upon Ralph Paynel were those which would have intruded into the territorial blocks allocated to others: the Count of Mortain's Cornish fiefdom, Count Alan's honour of Richmond, a
nd the royal manor of South Petherton. There is no reason to doubt that the Merleswein's who had held parts of these territories was the sheriff, Merleswein, the only man to bear that name in Domesday Book. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 
English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 , pp. 322-24, whose list omits CON 5,2,18. 5,4,5 and GLS 44,1 (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 44,2\tab THIS ENTRY is added in pale brown ink in the right margin in a smaller hand than the main text; there is not the marked diminution in size after }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Iurei }{\cf1\insrsid791211 that Farley printed (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab RALPH PAYNEL. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pagen }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (not }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 page}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , as Farley) is interlined above }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Rad' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
and rubricated. It is written at the extreme edge of the folio and there is no abbreviation sign; however the name }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pagenel }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is obviously intended; see GLS 44 Ralph note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 1 \'bd VIRGATES. They were probably not at Little Tarlton (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. pp. 236-40), but in Culkerton in Rodmarton. However, see 44,1 Tarlton note (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 45\tab RALPH OF TOSNY.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Ralph III, also called Ralph of Conches. He was son of Roger I of Tosny and brother-in-la
w of Earl William (son of Osbern), on whom see G4 William note. Ralph was lord of Clifford Castle in Hereford, his chief seat being at Flamstead in Hertfordshire (HRT 22,1). He died some time before March 1102; see Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
William the Conqueror}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 85-86. Tosny and Conches-en-Ouche are in the d\'e9partement of Eure, France; place-names with Toney (for example, Newton Toney in Wiltshire) are named after his descendants (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 45,1\tab ROGER [* OF BOSCHERVILLE *]. The Roger who held 'Combe Baskerville' (45,2) was almost certainly Roger of Boscherville, an early member of a family known in England as the Baskervilles; see }{\i\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{
\insrsid791211 , vi. p. 184. He may also have held Charingworth (45,1), Driffield (see 45,5 'Ampney' note) and Harnhill (45,4), though none of these manors remained with his descendants (JSM).
\par \tab \tab Boscherville is in the French d\'e9partement of Eure (arrondissement Pont-Audemer, canton Bourgtheroulde). For the identification, see Reaney, }{\i\insrsid791211 Dictionary of British Surnames}{\insrsid791211 , under Baskerville, and compare 
Loyd, }{\i\insrsid791211 Some Anglo-Norman Families}{\insrsid791211 , p. 19. Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid791211 Domesday People}{\insrsid791211 , p. 400, has him as 'probably from Bacqueville, Eure', that is in the French d\'e9
partement of Eure (arrondissement Les Andelys, canton Fleury-sur-Andelle). However, the earliest form of Bacqueville (}{\i\insrsid791211 Bascavilla}{\insrsid791211 ), cited in Dauzat and Rostaing, }{\i\insrsid791211 
Dictionnaire des Noms de Lieux en France}{\insrsid791211 , under Bacqueville, makes this unlikely.}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 45,2\tab `COMBE [BASKERVILLE]'. It}{\cf1\insrsid791211  comprised the whole parish of Westcote; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. p. 174; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , i. p. 221 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ROGER [* OF BOSCHERVILLE *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 On his identity, see 45,1 Roger note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 45,4\tab ROGER [* OF BOSCHERVILLE *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 On his identity, see 45,1 Roger note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 5 HIDES. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 v }{\cf1\insrsid791211 has been corrected from another number, possibly }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 i }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 45,5\tab 
'AMPNEY' AND [SOUTH] CERNEY. The Ampney portion of this manor lay in Driffield; the Cerney portion was Cerney Wick in South Cerney. The agricultural details may well refer to Harnhill (45,4) as well as Driffield and Cerney Wick (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ROGER [* OF BOSCHERVILLE *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 On his identity, see 45,1 Roger note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 45,6\tab [LOWER] SWELL. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
See 31,12 Swell note and 'Evesham N12-13' notes in the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab DROGO [* SON OF POYNTZ *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Drogo son of Poyntz, whose descendants, the Poyntz family, held Lower Swell until the thirteenth century (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ERNSI <OF PAINSWICK>. See 31,12 Ernsi note.}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 47\tab ROBERT THE BURSAR. Brother of Urso of Abetot who was sheriff of Worcestershire Robert}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 held the castle and honour of Tamworth (Staffordshire); see Empress Maud's chart
er to William of Beauchamp, printed in Round, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Geoffrey de Mandeville }{\cf1\insrsid791211 pp. 313-15 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 47,1\tab CHILDSWICKHAM. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
See 12,6 Wickhamford note and 'Evesham N12-13' notes in the \{Appendix\}.}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab 
BALDWIN [* SON OF HERLEWIN *]. See 1,51 Baldwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 48\tab 
ROBERT D'OILLY. Sheriff of Warwickshire from the early to the late 1080s, of}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Oxfordshire and perhaps also Berkshire. He was castellan of Oxford Castle under King William and is called the constable of Oxford; see the Abingdon Chronicle (Stevenson,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ii. pp. 
7, 12). See White, 'Household of the Norman Kings', pp. 149-51. He was probably married to one of the daughters of Wigot of Wallingford; see Freeman, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 History of the Norman Conquest}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, iv. App. Note C; and also 64,1 Wigot note. For Oilly, see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 103 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 48,1\tab [LITTLE] RISSINGTON.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  So }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 100, 108, 115, not Wyck Rissington as Taylor, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 257, 261 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 48,2\tab [UPPER] TURKDEAN. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
See 38,5 Turkdean note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 48,3\tab ROGER D'OILLY. In the manuscript }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 oger' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and part of the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 R }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
are written over an erasure, probably at once before the rest of the line was written. Though it is impossible to read what was originally written, it would seem that the scribe began, at least, to write }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Isd' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
(for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Isdem}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ) as in 48,2, because the ascender of the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 R }{\cf1\insrsid791211 has a 'tail' like an }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 I}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , rather than an }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 R}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ; also there is room for the scribe to have written }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Isd' Rotb't'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Roger' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 being written larger than usual and with a gap between the }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 R }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 o}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 It would therefore seem likely that the scribe intended to write }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Roger'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, not that he made a careless slip, as has been suggested, nor that the Domesday scribe wrote }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Radulf' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 or }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ricard' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and a later scribe mistakenly corrected the name to }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Roger' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 rather than }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Rotb}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 er}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 t'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Roger 
d'Oilly was presumably some relative of Robert; see White, 'Constables under the Norman Kings', p. 117. A Roger d'Oilly was the witness to several notifications of grants from }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
. l105-1114, appearing in one as constable; see Farrer, \lquote Itinerary of King Henry I\rquote  nos. 114-115, 127, 129, 195, 216, 316'; and also the Abingdon Chronicle (Stevenson,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
ii. p. 126). It is rather unusual that it is not stated that he held the land 'from Robert'; compare 75,3 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab NAUNTON. Reunited with 78,8 by 1287 to form Naunton manor (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
OSBERN SON OF RICHARD. Son of Richard Scrope, a Norman who settled in Herefordshire at the time of the Confessor and continued a landholder after the Conquest (see WOR 19,1 Richard note). Osbern succeeded him and was lord of Richard's Castle i
n Herefordshire (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 49\tab RICHARD THE COMMISSIONER.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See L 49 Richard note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 49,1\tab 8 HIDES. [***]. There is a gap of about six letters in the manuscript after }{\i\f703\cf1\insrsid791211 hid\'ea}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , perhaps for the later inclusion of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 geld' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
(as occurs in many other entries in Domesday Gl
oucestershire) or of a fraction; see WOR 14 entries note. Such gaps after the hidage occur very regularly in Domesday Herefordshire; see HEF 1,9 hides not. Farley did not print the gap, though he did in the similar cases of 56,1. 60,7 and 78,17 (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 50,1\tab 
DUNN <OF BRIMPSFIELD>. Dunn was the official predecessor of Osbern Giffard, most of his land lying across the boundaries between Gloucestershire, Somerset and Wiltshire. Although the term itself was not used, an entry for 'Oldbury' (50,4) records that thi
s holding of Giffard's 'did not belong to the man Dunn's land which Osbern holds, as the Shire states'. It is also probable that the Dunn who held Bitton (78,13) and Buckland Dinham (SOM 47,19) in both 1066 and 1086, and Barley in 1066 (WIL 67,28) was the
 
same individual since Buckland was adjacent to the holding of Osbern's predecessor at Elm, and Bitton and Barley were circled by several other of his holdings. Given that the name is uncommon and survival on the same holding for two decades even more so, 
i
t is also possible that the only other Dunn to have to have survived in this manner, the tenant of two manors in Devon (DEV 52,34-35), is the same man, in which case the royal manors held by Dunn lying between the Devon properties and those of Osbern Giff
ard may have been his also; but without tenurial or other associations to support the case it would be rash to make the identification. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 
, whose list omits BRK 39,1. GLS 78,13 and SOM 47,19 (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab VALUE \'a3
6. Written completely in the right margin (not as Farley), obviously later but by the same scribe as the rest (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 50,2\tab STOKE [GIFFORD]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See 3,1 Westbury note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab DUNN <OF BRIMPSFIELD>. See 50,1 Dunn note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 50,3\tab DUNN <OF BRIMPSFIELD>. See 50,1 Dunn note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 50,4\tab `OLDBURY'. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
It is in Elkstone, now Slutswell Farm (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab THE SHIRE STATES. [***]. The shire court. The gap of about six letters after this is caused by an erasure (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 51\tab GEOFFREY ORLATEILE. See Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 385 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 51,1\tab [IN CIRENCESTER HUNDRED]. The insertion of the hundredal rubric is justified by the inclusion of Priors Court in Baunton (78,5) in this hundred (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 52\tab GILBERT SON OF TUROLD. Probably the same man as Gilbert of Bouill\'e9 (WAR B2 Gilber
t note). He was a fairly important follower of Earl William of Hereford, holding land in Worcestershire, Gloucestershire, Herefordshire and Somerset with a few manors in Warwickshire, Cambridgeshire and Essex. In WOR 11,2 (Sheriffs Lench) he is said to ha
ve 'collected the gold for the king's use' (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 qui aurum recepit ad opus regis}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 52,1\tab 1 HIDE IN OAKLEY. This holding was later combined with Trewsbury (52,2) as the manor of Trewsbury (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab KENWARD. See 39,7 Kenward note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 52,2\tab IN TREWSBURY \'bd HIDE.
 . This holding was later combined with Oakley (52,1) as the manor of Trewsbury (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab OSWARD [* OF TREWSBURY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 52,3\tab [NORTH] CERNEY. It }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
included Calmsdean, Woodmancote and the area of the parish west of the River Churn (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ex}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  inf}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Dr N. M. Herbert) (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ELAF <OF DRIFFIELD>. See 26,2 Elaf note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab MEN-AT-ARMS ... MILL AT 8s. See 16,1 mill note (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 52,4\tab RENDCOMB. The identification of the two successive entries for manors in Rencomb (52,4-5) with the later manors}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 of 'Upper 
Rendcombe' and 'Lower Rendcombe' respectively is not absolutely certain; in any case, 'Upper}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Rendcombe', later renamed Marsden, included some land in 'Lower Rendcombe' (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 52,5\tab RENDCOMB. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See 52,4 Rendcomb note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab WALTER [* DELAMARE *]. Walter here and in 52,6 is f}{\cf1\insrsid791211 airly certainly Walter Delamare: both manors are later held by the Delamare}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 family (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. p. 80) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 52,6\tab THIS ENTRY and the next (52,7) are squeezed in at the bottom of the column (the final line being below}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 the last 
ruling), though not apparently written later; it is another example of the scribe's bad}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 planning in this county (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab IN SALMONSBURY HUNDRED. Entered in the left margin of the manuscript (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab AYLWORTH. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
The manor was reunited with Rose Court (34,6) in 1566; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. p. 80 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab WALTER [* DELAMARE *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 See 52,5 Walter note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *]. See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 52,7\tab 
THIS ENTRY is squeezed in at the bottom of the column; see 52,6 entry note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 53\tab DURAND OF GLOUCESTER. Durand of P\'eetres, constable of Gloucester Castle (Hart, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Historia et Cartularium Monasterii Sancti Petri Gloucestriae}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. lxxvi), and sheriff of Gloucestershire in 1086 after his brother Roger (on whom see 56,2 Roger note). He seems to have been 
dead by 1095 as his successor and nephew Walter was holding most of his land by the first half of that year. See Walker, 'Honours of the Earls of Hereford', pp. 174, 179; Walker, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Charters of the Earldom of Hereford}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 37-38 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 53,1\tab ONE MANOR. This can be identified from later evidence as the manor of Minsterworth (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 3 HIDES. Originally }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ii}{\cf1\insrsid791211  corrected to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 iii}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; the addition of the interlined }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 b}{\cf1\insrsid791211  (standing for -}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 bus}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 does not help clarify the correction (see, for example, 39,9 smallholders note), as it could be read as the ending for both }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 duabus }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 tribus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 53,2\tab ASHBROOK. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Although by the eighteenth century it was synonymous with Ampney St Mary, in the medieval period it also included part of Ampney Crucis (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 53,3\tab RALPH [* BLOIET *]. Ralph }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
is almost certainly Ralph Bloiet who held Daglingworth (31,7; see 31,7 Ralph note) immediately to the north, and is probably the same man who held 'Shipton Pelye' (53,9) and 'Littleton' (53,12) from Durand of Gloucester (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 53,4\tab CULKERTON.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  The main manor of Culkerton; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. pp. 236-40 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 53,5\tab DIDMARTON. In 1086 this included the sub-manor of Leighterton to the north, of which Durand's descendants, the Bohun Earls of Hereford, were overlords in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries (JSM)}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 53,6\tab CO-HEIRS. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Pares erant }{\cf1\insrsid791211 with the same meaning as }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pariter }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('jointly'); see SOM \{Introduction: Related or 'Satellite' Texts\}
on 'parage' as a form of land tenure (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 53,7\tab SEZINCOTE. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The main manor of Sezincote, comprising the part of Sezincote parish east of the main Broadway to Stow-on-the-Wold road (A424) except for Lower and Upper Rye (65,1.66,2) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab WALTER [* COCKERELL *]. Walter}{\cf1\insrsid791211  is probably Walter Cockerell whose descendants held both Icomb and Sezincote in the twelfth century (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 53,8\tab `ICOMB [PROPER]'. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See 39,4 Icomb note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab WALTER [* COCKERELL *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 For his identity, see 53,7 Walter note (JSM)}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 53,9\tab `SHIPTON [PELYE]'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  In Shipton Solers; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
i. p. 180. The site of 'Shipton Pelye' manor house survived until the late eighteenth century as 'Pullers Close' or 'Pool House Close' south of Shipton Oliffe church; see 63,2 Shipton note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab RALPH [* BLOIET *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See 53,3 Ralph note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 53,10\tab '[SHERIFFS] HARESFIELD'. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 This manor comprised the tithings of Haresfield and Parkend in Haresfield parish; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. pp. 188, 190. See also }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ii. p. 182 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab POTTERS. The Old English word }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 poters }{\cf1\insrsid791211 has been glossed over the regular Latin word }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 figuli }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 53,12\tab 'LITTLETON'. See 34,13 Dumbleton note (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab RALPH [* BLOIET *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See 53,3 
Ralph note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 53,13\tab 1 \'bd HIDES IN CONDICOTE. The main manor of Condicote; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , vi. pp. 63-67, 191-92 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 54,1\tab ERNSI <OF PAINSWICK>. See 31,12 Ernsi note.}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ROGER OF LACY WRONGFULLY HOLDS 1 HIDE. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
This hide became Frampton Manor Farm which remained separate from the 'Frampton Court' estate until reunited by purchase in 1839; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. pp. 143-48 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 54,2\tab EASTLEACH [MARTIN].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Divided into two halves in 1089, when St Peter's Abbey, Gloucester, acquired Fyfield ('the land of 5 hides'); the remainder became the manor of 'Boutherop'; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. 31 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 55,1\tab EASTLEACH [MARTIN]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The manor of Southrop, later held by Walter's descendants, the Poyntz family (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 56\tab WALTER SON OF ROGER. Son of Roger of P\'eetres. Nephew of Durand (HEF 22,5-6), constable of}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Gloucester Castle (Hart, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Historia et Cartularium Monasterii Sancti Petri Gloucestriae}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. lxxvi) and sheriff of Gloucestershire after Durand, though perhaps not immediately (Round, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Feudal England}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 313). See GLS 53 Durand note and 24,1 Horsley note. He was constable under Henry I (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 56,1\tab [GREAT] BARRINGTON. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
See 1,66 Barrington note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
8 HIDES. [***]. A gap of about six letters follows; see 49,1 hides note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 56,2\tab [SOUTH] CERNEY.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  The main manor of South Cerney, to which Cerney Wick (45,5) was reunited by 1285 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
THIS MANOR ... FATHER. These last three lines are compressed and were no doubt written after the rest of the entry, perhaps as a result of the lawsuit (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab ROGER THE SHERIFF. Roger of P\'ee
tres, brother of Durand, was created constable of Gloucester Castle by King William (Hart, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Historia et Cartularium Monasterii Sancti Petri Gloucestriae }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. lxxvi) and was sheriff of Gloucestersh
ire in Earl William's time, though dead by 1086 (see HEF 1,61) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 57,1\tab SEZINCOTE. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
Clapley manor formed the part of Sezincote parish west of the A424 road (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 58\tab WALTER THE BOWMAN. Domesday }{\i\insrsid791211 balistarius
}{\insrsid791211 ; }{\i\insrsid791211 ballista }{\insrsid791211 included all missile-throwing weapons, from crossbow to large artillery piece. The English word 'gun' was used of such weapons before the intro\-duction of gun-powder (JSM).
\par \tab \tab In the Phillimore printed edition for Gloucestershire }{\i\insrsid791211 balistarius}{\insrsid791211  was translated as 'gunner', though in the one for Somerset the identification provided for Walter in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Liber Exoniensis}{\cf1\insrsid791211  entry corresponding to SOM 32,1 is 'bowman'. I}{\insrsid791211 n view of the later meaning of 'gunner', it was decided to translate }{\i\insrsid791211 balistarius }{\insrsid791211 as 'bowman' throughout in the }{
\i\insrsid791211 Domesday Explorer }{\insrsid791211 version.}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 58,2\tab RUDDLE. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Ruddle in Newnham, not Rodley in Westbury-on-Severn: }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. pp. 37, 89, 98 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 58,3\tab BLEDISLOE HUNDRED. The S written above the }{
\i\insrsid791211 E }{\insrsid791211 in }{\i\insrsid791211 BLIDELA V }{\insrsid791211 is intended to go after the }{\i\insrsid791211 E}{\insrsid791211 , not to replace it; see also the interlined }{\i\insrsid791211 R }{\insrsid791211 in }{\i\insrsid791211 
ELWAD}{\insrsid791211  (78,11) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \'bd
 HIDE. The part of Ruddle manor in Awre parish and hence in Bledisloe Hundred (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 58,4\tab ALSTAN OF BOSCOMBE. See 31,4 Alstan note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab A CHURCH WHICH WAS NOT THERE [BEFORE 1066]. Th
e Church of St Peter, Frampton Cotterell, was presumably founded between 1066 and 1086 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 59\tab HENRY OF FERRERS. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 One of the Domesday Commissioners named in 'Worcester F'}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (= Hearne, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Hemingi Chartularium}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 288; see WOR \{
Appendix\}. His heirs were the Earls of Derby and Nottingham. He held much land in 1086. Ferri\'e8res-Saint-Hilaire is in the d\'e9partement of Eure, France; see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , p. 88 (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 59,1\tab SIWARD BARN. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 He joined Hereward, Earl Edwin and Earl Morcar in the Ely rebellion of 1071; see the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle for 1071. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 bar}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 probably had the same meaning as Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 cilt }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('childe', 'born to an inheritance', 'well born'). He is called Earl Siward in DBY 4,1 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 6 HIDES EXEMPT ... KING'S SEAL. King Edward; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Early Charters of the West Midlands}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , no. 173 p. 76; Harmer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Anglo-Saxon-Writs}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, p. 544 no. 13 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab VILLAGERS ... FRENCHMAN HOLD. Reading }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ten' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 as the abbreviation for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 tenent}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , though it could equally well abbreviate }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
tenens }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('holding}{\cf1\up6\insrsid791211 ')}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , referring only to the Frenchman (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 200 EELS, LESS 25. 25 eels normally made up one 'stick' (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 sticha}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ), hence the amount subtracted (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 60\tab ARNULF OF HESDIN. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 A large landholder in Wiltshire. Hesdin is in the d\'e9partement of Pas-de-Calais, France (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 60,1\tab WEYS OF CHEESE. Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pensas}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; the size of a }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 pensa}{\cf1\insrsid791211  is unknown (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 60,2\tab WULFWARD WHITE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Uuit }{\cf1\insrsid791211 here; also }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Wit}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Wite}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 albus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
elsewhere in Domesday. He is called a thane of King Edward in MDX 8,5, and was Arnulf's predecessor in several other counties (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 60,3\tab `AMPNEY [ST NICHOLAS]'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 This was named as such in the twelfth century when 2 hides were given to St Peter's Abbey, Gloucester, and incorporated in Ampney St Peter (10,12); see the Gloucester History and Cartulary (Hart,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
i. pp. 105, 164). Most of the residue formed the 5-hide manor of Ampney 'Bret' in Ampney Crucis parish, probably centred on Eastington House. The assessment should therefore perhaps be corrected to 7 \'bd
 hides, raising the total hidage for Garsdon Hundred to 75 hides; the Domesday figure may have arisen from a miscopying of 7 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 vii}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 as 4 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 iiii}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and a wrong conflation of variant endings, \'bd hide and 2 virgates. But the Domesday assessment is repeated in 'Evesham K296'; see \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 60,4\tab EDRIC <OF OLDBURY>. Edric was the predecesso
r of Arnulf of Hesdin in five counties, survived by his wife who was allowed to retain two holdings in Wiltshire as a tenant of Arnulf, with a house in Malmesbury. Edric had also held Linkenholt (HAM 7,1), adjacent to his manor at Combe (HAM 26,1), which 
Arnulf had granted to St Peter's of Gloucester. The name Edric is so common that it is probable that he had held other manors in those counties and possibly elsewhere. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 , p. 305 (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 60,5\tab EDRIC <OF OLDBURY>. See 60,4 Edric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 60,6\tab EDRIC <OF OLDBURY>. See 60,4 Edric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 60,7\tab EDRIC <OF OLDBURY>. See 60,4 Edric note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \'bd
 HIDE [***]. A gap of about four letters follows this; see 49,1 hides note. The fact that there is no dot after }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 hida }{\cf1\insrsid791211 strengthens the idea that
 the information intended for the gap concerned the hidage. There may have been doubt as to whether it was separately assessed: if it was not separately assessed, the vill of Bitton probably originally contained 20 hides (Bitton 1,9: 16? hides; Oldland 5,
1: 2 hides; Bitton 'Prebend' 78,13: 2 hides), conforming to the 5-hide assessment system (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 61\tab HAROLD SON OF EARL RALPH. Ralph the Timid, son of Countess Goda (King Edward's sister) and Count Drogo. He came to England in 1041, and was Earl of Hereford f
rom 1053 or earlier to 1057. He may have inherited part of the earldom of Swein; see Harmer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Anglo-Saxon-Writs}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, p. 570. In 1066 Harold was presumably a minor because in MDX 9,1 he is said to have been then in the charge of Queen Edith, his aunt. In 1086 he held land in Worcestershire and Warwickshire; Ewyas Harold in Herefordshire (HEF 19,1) is named after him (J
SM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 61,1\tab [IN 'GRESTON' HUNDRED]. The insertion}{\cf1\insrsid791211  of the hundredal rubric is based on topographical probability, all the surrounding manors definitely being in 'Greston' Hundred (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 61,2\tab MEASURES OF SALT. Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 mitta}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , English 'mit', a measure of uncertain volume, perhaps containing 6 or 8 bushels; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Worcestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, i. p. 270, ii. p. 257; Habington, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Survey of Worcestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , ii. p. 297. Compare WOR 22,1 where the same Harold has 7 salt-houses in Droitwich which pay 50 measures of salt (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 62\tab HUGH OF GRANDMESNIL}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . Sheriff of Leicestershire; died 1094. Grandmesnil is in the d\'e9partement of Calvados, France (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 62,1\tab PEBWORTH. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See 34,1 Pebworth note and 'Evesham N14' note in the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 62,2\tab 2 HIDES [***]. The rest of the line is left blank and there is no dot after }{\i\f703\cf1\insrsid791211 hid\'ea}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
; the scribe probably intended to enter details of the manor later when available; see 49,1 hides note and 60,7 hide note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 62,3\tab [UPPER] QUINTON.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  The agricultural details may well refer to Broad Marston (62,2) as well as Upper Quinton (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 62,4\tab ROGER [* OF LACY *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Since Lower Quinton was held }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1097 by Hugh of Lacy ('Evesham N11'; see \{Appendix\}
), 'Roger' can be identified as Roger of Lacy, Hugh's brother (see GLS 39 Roger note) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab 
BALDWIN [* SON OF HERLEWIN *]. See 1,51 Baldwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 62,5\tab `WESTON [MAUDIT]'}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
. In Weston-on-Avon; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. 260 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ROGER [* OF LACY *]. See 62,4 Roger note.}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab BALDWIN [* SON OF HERLEWIN *]. See 1,51 Baldwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WITH. In the manuscript }{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid791211 7c
\'fb}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 7}{\cf1\insrsid791211  was probably written first and should have been scratched out when the scribe saw his error and wrote in the correct }{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid791211 c\'fb }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (for }
{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 cum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 62,6\tab VALUE ... 30[s]. In the manuscript the abbreviation }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 sol' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('shillings') was accidentally omitted after }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xxx }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
(perhaps through lack of space), as happens on several occasions in Domesday (for example, in 78,3 ) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 63\tab HUGH THE ASS. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Lasne}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 asne}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , the initial }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 L}{\cf1\insrsid791211  being the definite article. From Old French }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 asne }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('ass', 'donkey'). He is also called by the Latin form }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 asinus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
in WOR 27,1. Hugh probably came over to England with William son of Osbern and served under him in defending the English border against the Welsh (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 63,1\tab THORKIL [* WHITE *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Perhaps the Thorkil White who was Hugh's predecessor in many of his Herefordshire manors; see HEF 1,65 Hugh note (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab See also 39,2 Thorkil note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 63,2\tab `SHIPTON [CHAMFLURS]'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  A lost place in Shipton Solers; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. 181. United 
by 1303 with 'Shipton Pelye' (53,9) and Shipton Oliffe (68,6) as the manor of Shipton Solers (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 63,4\tab GILBERT [* OF ESKECOT *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Gilbert is almost certainly the man of the same name who held part of Duntisbourne Abbots immediately west of Bagendon, and w
ho can be identified as Gilbert de Eskecot (see 39,7 Gilbert note) (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 64\tab THIS CHAPTER was probably misnumbered }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 lxi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 because the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 iii }{\cf1\insrsid791211 of the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 lxiii}{\cf1\insrsid791211  in the}{\insrsid791211  
}{\cf1\insrsid791211 preceding chapter is on the right hand side of the large }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 h }{\cf1\insrsid791211 of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Hugo }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
in 63,1 (which is outlined in red) and therefore easily missed when the scribe began the rubrication of the next fief and looked over the page to see what number he had reached. The misnumbering continues until chapter 69.}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab MILES CRISPIN. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 He was probably married to one of the daughters of Wigot of Wallingford; see Freeman, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 History of the Norman Conquest}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, iv. App. Note C, but see G. H. White in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Genealogist}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 xxxviii. (1922) pp. 116-19. See also 64,1 Wigot note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 64,1\tab 3 VIRGATES ... IN BRAWN. See 1,2 and 1,2 Brawn note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab WIGOT [* OF WALLINGFORD *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  Probably Wigot of Wallingford, predecessor of Miles Crispin and Robert d'Oilly}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
in several Domesday counties. He was kinsman and butler to King Edward and sheriff of Oxfordshire and made his peace with King William; see Freeman, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 History of the Norman Conquest}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , iv. App. Note C (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HELD IT. [***]. A gap of about seven letters follows this, perhaps because the earlier history was disputed (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 64,2\tab GEOFFREY [* DELAMARE *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Probably Geoffrey Delamare, as the Delamares held the manor certainly from 1201 until 1410; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. p. 168 (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 64,3\tab WIGOT [* OF WALLINGFORD *]. See 64,1 Wigot note.}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 65\tab URSO OF ABETOT.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 Brother of Robert the bursar and sheriff of Worcestershire. He held much lan
d in Worcestershire, Herefordshire, Warwickshire and Gloucestershire. He rapaciously acquired much church land, especially from the Churches of Worcester, Pershore and Westminster, and, with the help of Bishop Odo of Bayeux, from Evesham Abbey. See Freema
n, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 History of the Norman Conquest}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , v. App. pp. 757-66; Round in }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Worcestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, i. pp. 262-66. He helped to crush Earl Roger of Hereford's revolt in 1075. Abetot is in the d\'e9partement of Seine-Maritime, France (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 65,1\tab IN SEZINCOTE. The 2 hides in Se
zincote (65,1. 66,2) are certainly the two farms later known as Lower and Upper Rye, each containing about 150 acres, but it has not yet been possible to allocate the two holdings more precisely (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *]. See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 66\tab 
HASCOIT MUSARD. A Breton and landholder in many counties; he became a monk of Ely. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Musardus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in Medieval Latin means 'lazy', 'stupid'; see Du Cange, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Glossarium}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , under }
{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Musardus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 66,2\tab IN SEZINCOTE. See 65,1 Sezincote note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 66,3\tab ERNSI <OF PAINSWICK>. See 31,12 Ernsi note.}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 12 VILLAGERS. There is no gap in the manuscript after }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 xii}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , as appears in Farley's edition (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 66,4\tab ERNSI <OF PAINSWICK>. See 31,12 Ernsi note.}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 66,5\tab 
SIDDINGTON. Siddington 'St Mary' manor, centred on Barton Fa
rm in Upper Siddington village. The assessment should perhaps be corrected to 11 hides, making a round total of 20 hides for all the Siddington manors; the missing hide is the hide in Chesterton later held by the Musards (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab BESIDES THE LORDSHIP [LAND]. See 26,4 lordship note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ERNSI <OF PAINSWICK>. See 31,12 Ernsi note.}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 66,6\tab MISERDEN. It is}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 named from the Musards and superseded Greenhampstead as a name in 1300; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , i. pp. 120-30 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ERNSI <OF PAINSWICK>. See 31,12 Ernsi note.}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 67\tab "TURSTIN" SON OF ROLF. P}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
erhaps the standard bearer at Hastings (see Ellis 'Landholders of Gloucestershire', pp. 186-87) who was rewarded with land in Gloucestershire, Somerset, Dorset, Devon, Herefordshire, and other counties (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 67,1\tab AMPNEY [CRUCIS]. This estate was given to Tewkesbury Abbey in 1100 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Monasticon Anglicanum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , ii. p. 65; }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Calendar of Charter Rolls}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, ii. p. 490), apart from Tovi's 'land of 2 villagers' previously given to St Peter's Abbey, Gloucester, in whose history and cartulary it is described as ' \'bd hide' (Hart,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. pp. 61, 77, 164, 334; }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
ii. Addenda, p. 410). This equation suggests that at least in this part of Gloucestershire the normal holding of a villager in 1086 was already a virgate, as it certainly was in the thirteenth century. The \'bd
 hide was probably at Charlham, a detached portion of Ampney St Peter parish. The main manor absorbed 67,2. 69,2;8 and 77,1; it was centred on Ampney Knowle and hence often later known as 'Up Ampney' (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 67,2\tab 1 HIDE. Ampney 'Mareys' manor which was in Ampney Crucis and Ampney St Mary parishes (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 67,3\tab IN OAKLEY 1 HIDE. The manor of Coates Cockerell (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab GERWY [* OF LOGES *]. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Giruius}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see 76,1 Gerwy note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 67,4\tab BERNARD [* PANCEVOLT *]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Perhaps Bernard Pancevolt who held land from "Turstin" in Somerset and probably Dorset too. Pancevolt is 'paunch-face': Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 324-25 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab HALF-VILLAGERS. See W1 half-villagers note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 67,5\tab ALWOLD [* THE BALD *]. One of
 the predecessors of "Turstin" son of Rolf, principally in Somerset, named there in Exon (SOM 36,7), an entry which indicates that Alwold was an officially designated antecessor, as also in SOM 36,2. His holding in Cheriton (SOM 36,14) makes it almost cer
tain that he was the Alwold who leased land in the same vill from Cerne Abbey (SOM 28,2). See Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 , pp 231-32 who, curiously, omits the entry in which he is named (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 67,6\tab TOVI HOLDS}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 2 HIDES. These became the Stanley Park estate in the east of the parish; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. pp. 242, 244-48, 256, 259 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 68\tab ANSFRID OF CORMEILLES. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Cormeilles is in the d\'e9partement of Eure, France (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 68,2\tab 10 HIDES THERE AS TWO MANORS. Unusual word order; it looks as though the scribe omitted the }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ibi x hidae }{\cf1\insrsid791211 after }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Westone }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
(see 68,3. 69,7 etc.). An identical misplacement occurs in SHR 4,7,5 and 4,27,19 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 68,4\tab PLOUGHSHARES. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 sochs }{\cf1\insrsid791211 from }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 soccus}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see }{\i\insrsid791211 Revised Medieval Latin Word List}{\insrsid791211 ,}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 under }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 soccus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (2). More exactly, the iron tips for the wooden ploughshares. See 39,12 and 39,12 ploughshares note for other renders of ploughshares (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 68,6\tab SHIPTON [OLIFFE]. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 See 63,2 Shipton note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 68,8\tab `DUNTISBOURNE [HOTAT]'}{\cf1\insrsid791211  1 HIDE. This holding was combined with 68,11 as the manor of 'Duntisbourne Hotat', which is a lost manor in Duntisbourne Abbots; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. p. 71 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 68,9\tab ELKSTONE ... [GREAT] COLESBOURNE. Compare 'Evesham K342': '}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Elchestane }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Coleborne }{\cf1\insrsid791211 6 hides'; see \{Appendix\}. The 1 \'bd
 hides in [Great] Colesbourne were at Combend in Elkstone, immediately west of [Great] Colesbourne (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab A MAN-AT-ARMS HOLDS HALF THIS MANOR. Of [Great] Colesbourne (that is, Combend). He can be identified as the Bernard who held 'Duntisbourne Hotat' (68,11): before 1109 William s
on of Bernard gave to Eynsham Abbey the titles of his demesnes, which are explicitly located in [Great] Colesbourne and Duntisbourne in the fourteenth century (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 68,11\tab `DUNTISBOURNE [HOTAT]'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See 68,8 Duntisbourne note. In 'Evesham K341' (see \{Appendix\}) this Duntisbourne is included with the 68,8 Duntisbourne under a Cirencester hundred head (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BERNARD [* BEARD *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 68,12\tab 
[IN BOTLOE HUNDRED]. The insertion of the hundredal rubric is based on topographical probability, all the adjoining manors definitely being in Botloe Hundred (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 68,13\tab NIECE. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Presumably a daughter of Walter of Lacy's brother Ilbert (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 69\tab HUMPHREY THE CHAMBERLAIN. Probably of the household of Queen Matilda (see}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 69,7 and SUR 31); he held much land in Domesday. He was the brother of Aiulf, sheriff of Dorset (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 69,2\tab IN AMPNEY [CRUCIS] 1 HIDE. Added to 67,1 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 69,3\tab IN PRESTON 1 HIDE. This holding was later joined to Norcote (69,4) to form a}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 sub-manor from Humphrey's main manor of Fairford (1,50); }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ex}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  inf}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Dr N. M. Herbert (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 69,4\tab IN NORCOTE 1 HIDE. This holding was later joined to Preston (69,3) to form a}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 sub-manor from Humphrey's main manor of Fairford (1,50); }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ex}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  inf}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Dr N. M. Herbert (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 69,5\tab IN SIDDINGTON 2 HIDES. At 'Bowley' in Siddington St Mary (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 69,6\tab [IRON] ACTON. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 The main manor of Iron Acton, centred on Acton Court (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 1 \'bd MILLS. See 6,1 mill note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 69,7\tab BRICTRIC SON OF ALGAR. See 1,39 Brictric note (JP).}
{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab AS THREE MANORS. Entered 
in the left margin of the manuscript (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab QUEEN GAVE. Wickwar may have come to Queen Matilda at the same time as other of}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Brictric son of Algar's lands; see 1,42 queen note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab VILLAGES. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 uill'as }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('female villagers') in error for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 uillas }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('villages') (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 69,8\tab IN ASHBROOK 1 VIRGATE. Absorbed into 67,1 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 70\tab HUMPHREY OF MAIDENHILL. T}{\cf1\insrsid791211 he manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Medehalle }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is a miscopying of }{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid791211 Med\'e7hulle}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, that is, Maidenhill in north-east Longborough, immediately east of Sezincote, which Humphrey himself held (70,2) (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 70,1\tab UPTON [ST LEONARDS]. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Vtone }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is a scribal error for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Vpetone}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, that is, Upton [St Leonards], if the Humphrey of 1,2 is this Humphrey, which seems likely as the details given correspond. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid791211  identifies this place as Wotton (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 70,2\tab [* ALWIN THE SHERIFF *]. See 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 71\tab [LAND] OF HUMPHREY THE COOK. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Terra 
}{\cf1\insrsid791211 omitted in error, as happens quite frequently, for example, in WIL. This chapter appears to have been added later, probably when the folio was complete; the last line of the entry is written below the bottom marginal ruling (JSM).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 71,1\tab LATTON. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Lechetone }{\cf1\insrsid791211 cannot be either Leckhampton or Clapton, (as was suggested by Taylor, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Domesday Survey of Gloucestershire}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 19, 143, 150, 261), since Clapton was part of the manor of Bourton-on-the-Water (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, vi. pp. 40-41, 59-61), whilst Leckhampton was in Cheltenham Hundred (38,1. 78,9); also, all the medieval versions of Leckhampton have a medial }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 -ham-}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Gloucestershire}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ii. p. 109. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Lechetone }{\cf1\insrsid791211 must represent an Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 leactun}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, which is the origin of Latton in the extreme north of Wiltshire (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Place-Names of Wiltshire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
p. 45), where with Eysey manor 9 hides are recorded in Domesday (WIL 18,2). With the hide of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Lechetone}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
, Latton becomes a normal 10-hide vill and the half-hundred of Cricklade in which it was situated then contains exactly 50 hides, although in 1086 this hide seems to have been in Gloucestershire. Humphrey's hide was Latton Manor in the north of Latton par
ish; the main manor was centred on Latton Court, south of Latton village (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab OSBERN OF CHERBOURG. Cherbourg in the d\'e9partement of Manche, France; see Tengvik, }{\i\insrsid791211 Old English Bynames}{\insrsid791211 , p. 94 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 72\tab SIGAR OF CHOCQUES. Chocques in the d\'e9partement of Pas-de-Calais, France (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 72,1\tab COUNTESS GODA. See 72,2 Goda note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 9 SMALLHOLDERS. In the manuscript }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 bord' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is repeated where }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 car' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 ('ploughs') would normally occur, almost certainly in error (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab WOODLAND THERE [***]. The gap after this is only one or two letters wide, though it looks more because }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 bord' }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 
the line above extends beyond the side marginal ruling. The scribe may, however, have intended to add the dimensions of the woodland later; there is no dot after }{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid791211 silua \'e7 ibi }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\insrsid791211 72,2\tab [* COUNTESS *] GODA. Countess Goda was the sister of Edward the Confessor, wife of Drogo, Count of Mantes, and mother of Earl Ralph of Hereford; she was probably dead by 1049: see Williams, 'The King's nephew', pp. 327-43 for h
er lands and family.
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab \tab 
The name, though fairly common, probably represents few individuals which helps to identify the countess where her title has been omitted, although there are complications where the scribe appears to have confused the names }{\i\insrsid791211 God}{
\insrsid791211 , }{\i\insrsid791211 Goda}{\insrsid791211 , }{\i\insrsid791211 Gode}{\insrsid791211 , }{\i\insrsid791211 Golde}{\insrsid791211 , and even }{\i\insrsid791211 Godo}{\insrsid791211 : see Palmer, 'Great Domesday on CD-ROM', }{\i\insrsid791211 
Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 , ed. Hallam and Bates, p. 215. Every Goda in the Godwinson heartland of Sussex, however, was probably the countess. In five cases (SUS 9,78;80;96;101) the holdings lay in v
ills where the countess held under her full name, and in several of these she was succeeded by a tenant with the uncommon name of Reinbert. In two other cases (SUS 9,23. 10,42), the holdings were substantial ones and close to several others held by the co
u
ntess. Only Birchgrove is a doubtful. Here (SUS 10,110) the holding is tiny and somewhat isolated from the other properties of the countess. Even here, however, the holding had been held in freehold from the Crown and was subinfeudated to an tenant with t
he same name as her successor on another holding. Additionally, the }{\i\insrsid791211 God}{\insrsid791211 o of SUS 9,115 and the }{\i\insrsid791211 God}{\insrsid791211 
 of SUS 9,22 may have been the countess since both holdings were close to other holdings of hers and both were subinfeudated to the Reinbert who had acquired several other of her manors. In Devon, the Goda who preceded Ralph of Feug\'e8
res was very probably the countess, who was his predecessor in Buckinghamshire and Surrey also. In Gloucestershire, it is improbable that the fief of Sigar of Chocques was acquired fr
om two separate individuals named Goda, and the countess is identified in the first entry on the fief. Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 , omits Countess Goda from his lists (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
AS THE COUNTY TESTIFIES. Entered after the values, but with a mark to denote its correct position (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 72,3\tab [* COUNTESS *] GODA. See 72,2 Goda note (JP).}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
3 ... EXEMPT FROM TAX. 'Evesham K358' does not mention the claimed exemption of 3 hides, but this may merely be due to lack of space for an interlineation, since the interlined stateme
nt about the exempt 3 hides of Hazleton ('Evesham K357' = GLS 72,2), as well as the interlined 'Bradley' hundred head, occupies almost all the manuscript line. For 'Evesham K', see the \{Appendix\} (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 73\tab MATTHEW OF MORTAGNE. Mortagne in the d\'e9partement of Manche, France (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 73,2\tab 
JOHN [* THE DANE *]. Identified in Exon for Clevedon (SOM 44,1) as the predecessor of Matthew of Mortagne who also succeeded him in Dorset and Gloucestershire. Peter Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 
, p. 316, notes that Matthew was preceded by two other Danes, Strang and Thorkil who, he suggests, may have been related to John (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 73,3\tab 1 HIDE THERE. See }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. pp. 249-51. The land may have been}{\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 at Estcourt in Shipton Moyne (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 \tab ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See 1,45 Alwin note (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab See also 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 74,1\tab ALFHILD. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Elfelt}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 \'c6lfhild}{\cf1\insrsid791211 : }{\insrsid791211 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid791211 
Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 , }{\cf1\insrsid791211 p. 175 (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 75,2\tab THIS ENTRY and the next may have been added later. A space of about two lines
 was left after 75,1, similar to the space frequently left between chapters. This and the fact that the 'Swineshead' hundred head is repeated despite there being no change in hundred between 75,1 and 75,2, the fact that }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Rogerius }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 is written in 75,2 where one would expect }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Isdem R}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
., and the fact that Walter in 75,3 is not said to hold from Roger (compare 48,3 Roger note), suggest that 75,2-3 do not form part of chapter 75 at all, the Roger of 75,2 not being Roger son of Ralph and Wal
ter not being a mere scribal error for Roger (as Ellis, 'Landholders of Gloucestershire', p. 193). The scribe appears to have been unsure where the entries of the manors of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Rogerius }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Walterus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 belonged, perhaps believing them to form a separate chapter (
the hundred head was written in the exact position it would occupy when the scribe intended to insert a chapter heading; compare 74,1). For another oddly placed holding, compare WIL 49,1a. See also GLS 76 number note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab MANOR OF 1 HIDE. Later evidence enables this holding to be identified as the 'smaller manor of Clifton' (St Lawrence), owned by Westbury College at the Dissolution (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 75,3\tab THIS ENTRY may have been added later and may not be part of the fief of Roger son of Ralph; see 75,2 entry note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab MANOR OF 1 VIRGATE. Probably Mugland Farm, the nucleus of Blacksworth manor in St George (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 76\tab THE NUMBER AND HEADING for this chapter have been squeezed in by the scribe when rubricating and he had no room at all for the heading for chapter 7
7. It seems that the scribe forgot, or did not realize, that he had two different tenants-in-chief to deal with here. It may be that these two entries also were added later (like the preceding 75,2-3), the scribe not being sure where they belonged, perhap
s
 believing them to form with 75,2-3 a chapter of miscellaneous tenants such as the 'King's Servants or Officers' which appears at the end of other Domesday counties; compare also the three odd entries at the end of Domesday Worcestershire (WOR X 1-3) (JSM
).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 76,1\tab GERWY OF LES LOGES' WIFE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Geri }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is genitive, the nominative being }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Gerus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 or more correctly }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Ger' }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Geruius }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (compare }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Giruius }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in 67,3), from Old German }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Gerwig }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (Forssner, }{\i\insrsid791211 
Continental-Germanic Personal Names}{\insrsid791211 , p.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  111). Les Loges is in the d\'e9partement of Calvados, France. Edvin Loach in Worcestershire is named after one of his heirs. Gerwy's wife was called Gunhilda (}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Gunuldus}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 according to a record of her grant to St Peter's, Gloucester, of 2 hides in Guiting for the soul of her husband }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Juricus }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 in the time of Abbot Serlo (1072-1104), confirmed by King William and later by Henry I; see the Gloucester History (Hart,}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 i. pp. 80-81). The form }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Juricus }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 is probably due to Norman French alternation of initial }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 G }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 J}{\cf1\insrsid791211  (Forssner, }{\i\insrsid791211 Continental-Germanic Personal Names}{\insrsid791211 
, pp.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  101-102, 103) and a slip of the pen (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Juricus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in error for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Jiruicus}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Iiruicus}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
), but could also be 'of Ivry', there being perhaps some intermarriage between the families of Les Loges and Ivry (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab }{\insrsid791211 For unexplained reasons, Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid791211 Domesday People}{\insrsid791211 , 
p. 208, includes the Warwickshire fief of Gerin (WAR 34) among the possessions of Gerwy of Les Loges though not other Hampshire holdings of the only other 'Gerins' in Domesday Book (HAM S2. IoW9,18). The holding in the Isle of Wight, however, appears to b
e that referred to in HAM 1,37, held by Ghervi, identified as of Les Loges so one or other of the Hampshire forms appears to be a scribal error: see WAR 34,1 Gerin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
4 HIDES IN [TEMPLE] GUITING. The land was at 'Beales Place' (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 77\tab [LAND OF BA
LDWIN]. This heading has been added from the List of Landholders on folio 162c; see GLS 76 number note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 77,1\tab ALWIN [* THE SHERIFF *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See 1,45 Alwin note (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab \tab See also 19,2 Alwin note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 78,1\tab WINDRUSH. This entry is duplicated in 11,14. The discrepancy in}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  T.R.E.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  holders could be because Bolla held the 3 \'bd hides after Wulfric, Tovi and Leofwin (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab AFTER THIS ENTRY there is a gap of a couple of lines before 78,2. This is another example of the scribe's bad planning of this county. 78,1 is written rather larger than the rest of the page (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 78,2\tab IN "GERSDONES" HUNDRED. This is probably an error for Barrington Hundred as all the other Windrush entries are in the latter hundred. This holding is identifiable as Le Mary Farm; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Glouces}{
\cf1\insrsid791211 tershire, vi. pp. 179-80 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 78,3\tab `DUNTISBOURNE'.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  See 17,1 Duntisbourne note. Identifiable as 'Nutbeam' in Duntisbourne Leer (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 78,4\tab OSWARD [* OF TREWSBURY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 
RODMARTON. Identifiable as 'Chamberlains' in Rodmarton; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , xi. pp. 236-40 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 78,5\tab BAUNTON. }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Identifiable as Priors Court in Baunton (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab 3 VILLAGERS. Originally written }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ii }{\cf1\insrsid791211 and corrected to }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 iii }{\cf1\insrsid791211 with }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 es }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (for }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 tres}
{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 interlined (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 78,6\tab \'bd HIDE ... AS A MANOR. Probably Elmore (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 78,7\tab EDITH. An example of a woman being classed among thanes; see also Cwenhild in the next entry (78,8). See SOM 2,6 hides note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab BICKMARSH. Partly in Gloucestershire in 1086 and partly in Warwickshire (WAR 43,2). Until recent times it was a hamlet in that
 part of the Gloucestershire parish of Welford that lay in Warwickshire. In 1931 the major part was joined with Pebworth (transferred into Worcestershire at the same time), a part remaining in the Warwickshire parish of Dorsington (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 78,8\tab CWENHILD. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Cuenhild}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; Old English feminine personal name }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Cwenhild}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see Reaney, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 
Dictionary of British Surnames}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , under Quenell (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab NAUNTON. See 48,3 Naunton note (JSM)}{
\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 78,9\tab SLAVES. Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 seruos }{
\cf1\insrsid791211 is in the accusative after }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 h}{\cf1\insrsid791211 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 abe}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 t }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\insrsid791211 78,11\tab ALWARD SON OF REINBALD.}{\cf1\insrsid791211  For the interlined }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 R }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 ELWAD }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (Alward), see 58,3 Bledisloe note (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab ALDSWORTH.}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 The manor was at Wall, a site at the north end of Aldsworth village (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 \tab BALKI [* THE DANE *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 He was described as 'the Dane' (}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Daci}{\cf1\insrsid791211 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in 1133: Ross, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Cartulary of Cirencester Abbey}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , i. p. 22 (JSM).}{
\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 78,12\tab ALSI [* OF FARINGDON *].}{\cf1\insrsid791211 
 'Evesham K376-377' ( = GLS 78,1;12), by bringing together the two holdings of }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Elsi}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , implies that the Alsi of 78,12 is the same as the holder of 78,1, that is, Alfsi of Faringdon (JSM).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 78,13\tab DUNN <OF BRIMPSFIELD>. Domesday}{\cf1\insrsid791211  }{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Dons}{\cf1\insrsid791211 ; see }{\insrsid791211 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid791211 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 , }{\cf1\insrsid791211 p. 228, under }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Duns}{\cf1\insrsid791211 .}{
\i\cf1\insrsid791211  }{\cf1\insrsid791211 Probably the same man as the Dunn in 50,1-4. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 -s }{\cf1\insrsid791211 is the Anglo-Norman nominative singular inflexion (}{\insrsid791211 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid791211 
Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 , }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \'a7 158). Compare }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Bruns }{\cf1\insrsid791211 in HEF 14,4 (}{\insrsid791211 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid791211 
Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid791211 , }{\cf1\insrsid791211 p. 210) for which the Herefordshire Domesday (Galbraith and Tait, p. 54) has the Latinized form }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 Brunus }{\cf1\insrsid791211 (JSM).}{\insrsid791211 

\par \tab \tab See also 50,1 Dunn note (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 \tab BITTON. Bitton 'Prebend', granted to Salisbury Cathedral }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 c}{\cf1\insrsid791211 . 1115; see Ellacombe, }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 History of Bitton}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , pp. 42-63 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid791211 78,14\tab WOODCHESTER. It is uncertain whether Edward of Salisbury's possession of Woodchester (1,63) was an illeg
al intrusion on the whole or only a part of Brictric's manor: later there was a second manorial site in Woodchester at Atcombe Court; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid791211 VCH Gloucestershire}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , x. pp. 296-97 (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 78,15\tab 
HARDING [* SON OF ALNOTH *]. The name Harding occurs or is implied on some four dozen holdings in Domesday Book, probably representing four or five individuals. Peter Clarke has assigned all 33 }{\i\insrsid791211 T.R.E.}{\insrsid791211 
 holdings in Great Domesday to Harding son of Alnoth (Clarke, }{\i\insrsid791211 English Nobility}{\insrsid791211 , pp. 282-83), while Katharine Keats-Rohan has attributed 15 of the 17 1086 tenancies to the same man (}{\i\insrsid791211 Domesday People}{
\insrsid791211 , p. 244). Of the other two, Ann Williams (}{\i\insrsid791211 The English and the Norman Conquest}{\insrsid791211 , p. 120 note 125) has shown that the Berkshire holding was probably held by the individual who held in Dors
et and Wiltshire in 1086, and the seventeenth tenancy was held by a burgess of Oxford. The grounds for the majority of these attributions have not been stated but are relatively easy to reconstruct. 29 of the 33 }{\i\insrsid791211 T.R.E.}{\insrsid791211 
 holdings in Great Domesday were conne
cted in some way with Earl Aubrey of Coucy. Three of these (WIL 67,60-62) were held by Harding at both dates, as were three of the remaining four holdings without the Coucy link. As the survival of more than one Englishman with an uncommon name holding th
e
 same properties at both dates within a limited area is improbable, all six properties may have been held by the same individual. The final 1066 holding, at Winterslow (20,6) was connected indirectly to the other 32: Harding held another property in the s
a
me vill (WIL 23,3), one which also devolved upon Aubrey de Coucy. All 33 1066 holdings therefore probably belonged to one man. Of the 1086 tenancies, Harding is named as the son of Alnoth in the Somerset holdings, which descended to the Meriet family thro
u
gh his eldest son Nicholas (SOM 47,3-8). The remaining properties in Berkshire, Dorset, Somerset, and Wiltshire have been discussed above, leaving those in Buckinghamshire, Gloucestershire, Hampshire, and Warwickshire to be accounted for. Ann Williams has
 suggested that the Gloucestershire Harding is the son of Alnoth, on grounds of proximity to the family's Bristol base (}{\i\insrsid791211 The English and the Norman Conquest}{\insrsid791211 
, p. 120); his connections with other royal manors and with Queen Edith offer a possible link with the
 Hampshire holding (HAM 6,1); and the Warwickshire holding lay between those held by Harding in the county in 1066 (WAR 17,30). The two modest, adjacent Buckinghamshire holdings have no discernible links to other Harding properties and may have belonged t
o another English survivor. Doubts have been raised about the identification of the 1066 landholder with Harding son of Alnoth, however, principally on the grounds that William of Malmesbury reports him to have been active in the 1120s (}{
\i\insrsid791211 Gesta regum}{\insrsid791211 , p. 471), too old to have held land before the Conquest (Lewis, }{\cf17\insrsid791211 'Formation of the Honour of Chester',}{\insrsid791211 
 pp. 67-68). But the tenurial history of Beechingstoke (WIL 12,1) tends to confirm the identification. Harding held this manor in 1066, and Harding son of Alnoth w
as litigating about it in the reign of Henry I. Moreover, the tenant-in-chief of Beechingstoke was Shaftesbury Abbey, to which Harding son of Alnoth donated land when his daughter became a nun there: Williams, }{\i\insrsid791211 
The English and the Norman Conquest}{\insrsid791211 , pp. 120-21 (JP).}{\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid791211 78,17\tab 2 HIDES [***]. There is an erasure after }{
\i\f703\cf1\insrsid791211 hid\'ea}{\cf1\insrsid791211 , but the scribe may have intended a gap to be left anyway; see 49,1 hides note. Erasures were frequently written over; see 2,4 value note and 48,3 Roger note (JSM).}{\cf1\insrsid12330816 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid12330816 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid791211 
\par }}