{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}
{\f10\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f37\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f703\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f704\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f706\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f707\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f708\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f709\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f710\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f711\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f723\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f724\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f726\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f727\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f728\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f729\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}{\f730\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}
{\f731\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}{\f743\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Helvetica CE;}{\f744\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Helvetica Cyr;}{\f746\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Helvetica Greek;}{\f747\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Helvetica Tur;}
{\f748\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Helvetica (Hebrew);}{\f749\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Helvetica (Arabic);}{\f750\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Helvetica Baltic;}{\f751\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Helvetica (Vietnamese);}
{\f1073\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1074\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1076\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f1077\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1078\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1079\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f1080\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1081\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa120\keepn\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f4\fs28\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Heading;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx360\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx360\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f37\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon16 \snext17 List;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\f37\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 \ssemihidden caption;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f37\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 
Index;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Plain Text;}{\s21\ql \fi-1134\li1134\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx1134\tx1418\tx9781\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1134\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext21 dday;}{\*\cs22 \additive \f3 RTF_Num 2 1;}{\*\cs23 \additive \f2 RTF_Num 2 2;}{\*\cs24 \additive \f10 RTF_Num 2 3;}{\*
\cs25 \additive \f3 RTF_Num 2 4;}{\*\cs26 \additive \f2 RTF_Num 2 5;}{\*\cs27 \additive \f10 RTF_Num 2 6;}{\*\cs28 \additive \f3 RTF_Num 2 7;}{\*\cs29 \additive \f2 RTF_Num 2 8;}{\*\cs30 \additive \f10 RTF_Num 2 9;}}{\*\revtbl {Unknown;}}{\*\pgptbl {\pgp\ipgp0\itap0\li0\ri0
\sb0\sa0}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid5247740\rsid6037987\rsid8285616\rsid15601001}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info{\author matt}{\operator John Palmer}{\creatim\yr2007\mo7\dy21\hr20\min52}{\revtim\yr2007\mo7\dy31\hr12\min58}{\printim\yr2113\mo1\dy1}
{\version4}{\edmins10}{\nofpages25}{\nofwords13403}{\nofchars76400}{\*\company  University of Hull}{\nofcharsws89624}{\vern16389}}\paperw11909\paperh16834\margl1605\margr526\margb360 
\deftab1080\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\makebackup\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot15601001 
\fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s21\qc \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid15601001 NOTES
\par }{\insrsid15601001 (version 1a)}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard \s21\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 {\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 KENT. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 CHENTH}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, written in red, across the top of the page, spread above both columns, with the exception of folio 11ab (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 {\cf1\insrsid8285616 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 D1\tab DOVER. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 23) adds 'is the King's Borough' (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 D2\tab 20 SHIPS. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 24) adds 'for the keeping of the sea' (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 D7\tab "ORA". Literally an ounce, in Scandinavia a monetary unit and coin still in use; in Domesday}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
valued at 16 (assayed) or 20 (unassayed) pence, see Harvey, 'Royal Revenue and Domesday Terminology' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 D8\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  One of Odo of Bayeux's knights, named and depicted on the Bayeux Tapestry where he is shown during the foraging near Hastings, see Stenton, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Bayeux Tapestry}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 plate 47 (PM).}{\insrsid15601001 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab \tab }{\insrsid15601001 The name Wadard occurs on over forty holdings in Domesday Book, all probably held by one individual. All but a coup
le of properties in Kent were held as a tenant of the Bishop of Bayeux, the exceptions being held from St Augustine's Abbey which accommodated other of Odo's tenants. This singular distribution proves Wadard's identity, confirmed by the descent of his hol
dings to form the core of the barony of Cogges: Sanders, }{\i\insrsid15601001 English baronies}{\insrsid15601001 , pp. 36-37; Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday People}{\insrsid15601001 , p. 444 (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab [!3! GEOFFREY !3!] SON OF MODBERT.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
pp. 24-25) identifies him as Geoffrey son of Modbert (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 D10\tab A MILL. From the description it would appear that this was a tidal mill (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 D11\tab FOUR LATHES. See \{Introduction: the Lathes\}.}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 D17\tab DEATH-DUTY. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 relevatio}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  relevium}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
the 'relief or 'heriot', was paid by the heir on taking up his inheritance. The scale of rates was laid down in the law codes, especially 2 Canute 71 and the 'Laws of King William' 20 [Robertson, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Laws of the Kings of England}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , pp. 210-11, 262-63]. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 villanus }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 paid an ox, cow or horse, the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 censarius }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 a year's tribute (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab 
YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF CANTERBURY *]. Young Alnoth, or Alnoth of Kent, was a major landholder in 1066, with several very large holdings in Kent, Sussex, Surrey, Hampshire and Oxfordshire. Apart from the scale of his individ
ual manors he is nearly always distinguished by the title }{\i\insrsid15601001 cilt}{\insrsid15601001 
 (Young) and by the fact that every one of his holdings devolved upon the Bishop of Bayeux apart from the huge manor of Bramley (SUS 8,1) used to endow Battle Abbey, and a small property in Buck
inghamshire (BUK 17,25) where an Alnoth the Kentishman was lord of the pre-Conquest holder, Edstan. It was probably the modest scale of this holding and its acquisition by a tenant-in-chief other than Odo which caused Peter Clarke to omit this Alnoth from
 his list: }{\i\insrsid15601001 English Nobility}{\insrsid15601001 
, pp. 237-38. However, this is almost certainly Alnoth of Kent. Apart from the description, 'Kentishman', his man Edstan did occur elsewhere on the fief of the Bishop of Bayeux (ESS 18,43), and the name is rare enough to make it l
ikely that this is the same individual, despite the distance between the properties (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab ESBIORN BIG. See 5,42 Esbiorn note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab SIRED OF CHILHAM. See 5,124 Sired note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab NORTHMANN <OF MEREWORTH>. The name Northmann is not common in the south-east,
 where all references have been identified as the magnate who had significant legal privileges in eastern Kent (D17). All the holdings of Northmann in Kent, Surrey and Sussex were held directly from the Crown, and several were of a status appropriate to a
 
magnate of regional importance. Although they devolved upon a number of tenants-in-chief, the substantial manors of Nettlestead, Mereworth, Blean, Annington and Camberwell are more likely to have been held by one man rather a number of different wealthy i
n
dividuals with an uncommon name. There can be less confidence with the smaller properties; but if Peter Clarke is correct in his identification, Northmann was one of the many Anglo-Saxon magnates permitted to survive on a fragment of their previous estate
s, holding a small part of the manor of Frankwell he had previously held in its entirety, serving moreover as one of a number of men-at-arms in the entourage of the Norman who had supplanted him: Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday nobility}{
\insrsid15601001 , p. 325 (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 D18\tab "SCHILDRICHEHAM".}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 An unlocated place which appears later in 5,146 as }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Cildresham}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The first element is the personal name }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Cildric}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 rare in Old English (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 D22\tab 
YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 D23\tab 
PENENDEN. That is, Penenden Heath, the site of the Shire
 court and the scene of Lanfranc's claim against Odo of Bayeux in 1072 concerning the losses from the Canterbury estate sustained, it now appears, as a result of encroachments made by the Godwin family in the years before 1066; see Bates, 'Penenden Heath 
Revisited'. Domesday refers to the claim at 2,5;43. 4,16. See also 2,30 yokes note (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 D25\tab YOUNG BRICTSI. See 5,18 Brictsi note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab OSWARD OF NORTON. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 M\tab 
LAND OF THE CANONS OF ST MARTIN'S OF DOVER. Entered here as an appendix}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
to the account of Dover, but interrupted by the account of the City of Canterbury on folio 2a. The account of the lands of the Canons of St Martin's of Dover thus breaches the custom of beginning each county with the land of the king, and their name is om
i
tted from the list of landholders on folio 2b. The information in these sections differs from the formula employed elsewhere in Domesday in omitting ploughlands and retaining, apparently, only the Edwardian assessment. Harvey, 'Domesday Book and Anglo-Nor
m
an Governance', argues that these features are indicative of a pre-1085 date for the St Martin's entries and suggests that Ranulf Flambard, who had been master of the house, had conducted a survey of the estate which, on the failure of the 1085 reassessme
nt, he recommended as a model for the Domesday Inquest (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 M1\tab 21 SULUNGS. Listed below in M2-24. The total here is 17 sulungs, 4 \'bd yokes, 3 virgates and 235 acres. The 3 sulungs in 'Limen' Lathe are entered below in P2-4 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab PREBENDS IN COMMON. Domesday records that Bishop Odo of Bayeux had distributed the prebends individually, although in the following entries the former occupant is given (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 M3\tab 1 MONASTERY. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 26) calls it a church: }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
unam ecclesiam }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab 
SIRED [* THE CANON *]. The Sired holding on the fief of the Canons of St Martin's of Dover is evidently the canon named as such in P1 (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 M5\tab 25 ACRES. See M18 Deal note (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 M6\tab SIRED [* THE CANON *]. See M3 Sired note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab SIRED [* THE CANON *]'S FATHER. See M3 Sired note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 M7\tab VALUE 60s AND 9s 2d. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 27) gives \'a33 10s 2d (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 M9\tab VALUE 30s. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 27) gives 60s (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 M10\tab WALTER [!3! OF CAMBREMER !3!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
p. 27) identifies him as Walter of Cambremer (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Cambrermer}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ) (PM). [Cambremer is the name of a commune in the French d\'e9partement of Calvados, (arrondissement Lisieux).]}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 M11\tab ROBERT. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
pp. 27-28) has 'In the Hundred of Bewsbury and 'Cornilo' Robert}{\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Trublet}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  has 1 sulung in prebend which two men, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Suthgar}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 and Goldstan, held before 1066' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 M13\tab 85 ACRES. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 28) gives '80 acres' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab VALUE \'a33; BEFORE 1066, \'a34. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 28) gives 'Value then \'a3
12; now 60s' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 M14\tab ARCHDEACON ANSKETIL}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 . The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
p. 28) has 'In 'Cornilo' Hundred the Archbishop of Canterbury has 1 sulung in prebend of St Martin's. Value \'a36 10s' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 M15\tab \'bd SULUNG AND 12 ACRES. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 28) gives '\'bd sulung and 12 \'bd
 acres' and reduces the holding in Deal to ' \'bd sulung less 11 \'bd acres' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 M17\tab 3 VIRGATES. Perhaps in error. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 29) renders as '3 yokes' (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab THE VALUE IS AND ALWAYS WAS 60s. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 29) has 'Value \'a34' (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 M18\tab IN DEAL. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
p. 29) places part of the holding in Guston, perhaps the 25 acres referred to in M5 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 M20\tab VALUE 25s; BEFORE 1066, 35s. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
p. 29) has 'The value was 30s; now 25s' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 M21\tab 1 \'bd YOKES. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 29) gives '1 yoke' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab VALUE BEFORE 1066, 25s. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 29) gives it as 20s (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab SPIRTES [* THE PRIEST *].}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  Favourite of Harold Harefoot (1037-40) and Harthacnut (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 c}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 . 1040-42) who was banished by Edward the Confessor in 10
65 and whose lands were forfeited: }{\insrsid15601001 Hearne, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Hemingi Chartularium}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , i. p. 254 (PM).}{\insrsid15601001 
\par \tab \tab Most of his holdings devolved upon Nigel the doctor. Spirtes is the only person with this name in Domesday Book. See Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15601001 English Nobility}{\insrsid15601001 , pp. 342-43 (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 M22\tab SIRED [* THE CANON *]. See M3 Sired note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 M23\tab EDWIN [!3! BROTHER OF BALDWIN !3!].}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 pp. 29-30) identifies him as Baldwin's brother (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 

\par }{\insrsid15601001 M24\tab GODRIC [!3! LATIMER !3!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 GODRIC. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
p. 30) identifies him as Godric Latimer [}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 latunarius}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ], whose predecessor was }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Oswynus silvagius}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  the priest (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 C1\tab 51 BURGESSES WHO PAID TRIBUTE. \'a33 7s 5d, according to the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 7) (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab ANOTHER 212.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 9) calls them free men (}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 liberi homines}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 and adds 'The cobblers}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 and drapers pay 30s, the porter 5s' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 8 ACRES OF MEADOW. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 7) adds 'on which the king's horses graze, coming}{
\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 and going' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 1000 ACRES OF UNPRODUCTIVE WOODLAND. '1000 acres of underwood where the men of the district (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 patria}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 and the burgesse
s of the city paid 20s to the king's sheriff': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 7) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 C2\tab TWO HOUSES. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
p. 10) adds 'The monks of Holy Trinity destroyed one, and have}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 forbidden the other to be repaired. They paid 16d in tribute to the king' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 C3\tab TRIBUTE. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 10) adds that it was worth 53s (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab THESE HOUSES. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 10) adds 'Now Ranulf of Colombi\'e8
res and Vitalis of Canterbury hold all these from the Bishop of Bayeux's Holding, but they only acknowledge 26' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 5 ACRES. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 10 )adds 'with a church' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 C4\tab 
[* EARL *] HAROLD'S CONCUBINE. See P20 Harold note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 C5\tab ESBIORN BIG. See 5,42 Esbiorn note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 C6\tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab ESBIORN BIG. See 5,42 Esbiorn note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab SIRED OF CHILHAM. See 5,124 Sired note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab IF ANYONE DIGS. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }
{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 9) gives 'If anyone makes a ditch, or puts up a pigsty or}{\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 narrows the king's highway' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 C8\tab BISHOP OF BAYEUX. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 pp. 7-8) adds '
and Hugh de Montfort and the Count of Eu}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 and Richard son of Gilbert'. These were presumably the king's barons whom Domesday refers}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 to as having tried the case (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 P1\tab SIRED [* THE CANON *]. See M3 Sired note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 P6\tab NORWOOD.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 Not entered under any hundred. The place was later in the Hundred of}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Newchurch: Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 470. See also P18 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 P11\tab MEDERCLIVE.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  Not entered under any hundred, although geographically within}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Bewsbury Hundred in Eastry Lathe (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 P16\tab 400 \'bd ACRES, WHICH MAKE 2 \'bd SULUNGS. The statement, taken literally, would make}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
the Kentish sulung contain a little over 160 acres. Vinogradoff, 'Sulung and Hide', pp. 282-86, argued that the Domesday clerk had meant 400 and \'bd (a hundred) acres, which would giv
e a sulung of roughly 180 acres. Comparison of the entries for Northbourne in Domesday and the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 gives a much more}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
precise figure of 200 acres. See 7,19 sulungs note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 P19\tab THE MANUSCRIPT does not have the gallows-like section sign, added by Farley (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See D8 Wadard note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 P20\tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab [* EARL *] HAROLD. The name Harold is one of the most common in Domesday Book, occurring over 700 times; but it probably represents fewer than
 20 individuals, of whom Earl Harold Godwinson is overwhelmingly the most significant, Harold son of Earl Ralph of Hereford being the only other individual of any consequence. Harold is identified as the earl each of the few times he is named in Kent; but
 
in a large number of cases in other counties the scribe has not given Harold his title. In Essex, Norfolk and Suffolk, for instance, he is described as earl only once in each county (ESS B3k. NFK 3,2. SUF 68,1) though he undoubtedly held a large number of
 
estates in all three, possibly all but two of those recorded in the three counties. However, there are surprisingly few cases where there is real cause for uncertainty about identifying the earl: the royal estates, the larger manors, the lordship over men
, his territorial predominance in some areas, association with members of his family, and relationships between estates, serve to distinguish him in the majority of cases; but see BUK 17,22 Harold note. Ann Williams, 'Land and power', }{
\i\insrsid15601001 Anglo-Norman Studies}{\insrsid15601001 , vol. 3 (1981), pp. 171-87, 230-34, discusses Harold's estates and those of his men; and Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15601001 English Nobility}{\insrsid15601001 
, pp. 164-91, lists them. Clarke tends to omit the dependencies where Harold is not explicitly named, or holdings named only in satellite texts 
(CON 4,2. 2,5;41;43). He has also omitted the following: BUK 3a,5. 26,11. 30,1. CHS 8,41. ESS 1,23. HEF 1,56. 17,2. HRT 1,15. 5,5. HUN 13,1-3. NFK 8,33. 9,178; 233. 20,8;19;24;31. 21,16;22;33-34. 22,2-8. 26,3. NTT 3,1-3. OXF 58,30. SUF 1,119. 36,3;5-7;15.
 38,21. 39,17. 67,12;17. 76,6;20;23. SUR 26,1. WIL 18,2. 41,1; and the entries for GLS 30,1 and 50,3 have been confused (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab HAWKHURST. A dene}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 ['pig pasture'] of Wye Lathe. The place was later in Barnfield Hundred}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 which, it is argued, may have been in existence by 1086; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 335; and \{Introduction:}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Administrative Divisions\}(PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 1,1\tab DARTFORD.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  Later in its own hundred: Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 31 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab PIG PASTURES. The Latin is }{\i\f703\cf1\insrsid15601001 den\'ea}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 . A }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 dena}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  is an area of woodl
and pasture located in the Weald but still dependent on its parent manor in the upland of north Kent. Identification of these Wealden}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
settlements, which appear anonymously in Domesday, is often possible from later records. Witney, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Jutish Forest}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , contains full reference to these identifications (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. Osward, probably the sheriff of Kent (1,1), is named as having full jurisdiction in western Kent (D25); he was the predecessor of the Bishop of Bayeux in Kent and Essex and probably also
 of the only two other holdings of an Osward in Kent, the two substantial manors of Crayford and Sellindge, the former held from the archbishop of Canterbury according to the }{\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\insrsid15601001 
, and the latter acquired by Hugh de Montfort. Crayford was ad
jacent to the royal manor of Dartford where Osward the sheriff was active, and Sellindge was in western Kent. Moreover, two wealthy landowners with an uncommon name in one county is unlikely, three very improbable (JP).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab \tab It has been observed that in the a
bsence of documentation - almost always the case with Anglo-Saxon landowners - the search for connections which may indicate a identification 'starts with a scattering of dots across the map of England': Lewis, 'Joining the dots', in }{\i\insrsid15601001 
Family Roots}{\insrsid15601001 , edited b
y K. Keats-Rohan, pp. 69-87 at p. 80. In the case of Osward, the dots are highly indicative: two concentrations, one in Kent, Sussex and Surrey, the other in western England. Otherwise the map is blank apart from a solitary dot in Nottinghamshire. In the 
s
outh-east, this pattern offers indications of identification where the usual clues - tenurial associations - fail, due the manner in which the Conqueror carved up Kent and Sussex in particular, and they point to a limited number of individuals, possibly o
n
ly one. The wealthy manor at Walkingstead (SUR 15,2), and the substantial ones at Addington (SUR 34,1), Pangdean and Ratton (SUS 10,35. 12,32), point in the same direction. Additionally, two tenant-in-chief acquired a holding from an Osward in Claverham, 
a
nd each had one other holding in the neighbourhood from an Osward. Finally, there are three holdings along the south coast of Sussex held by an Osward at both dates (SUS 12,24;27) or in 1086 (SUS 9,14): more than one survivor with an uncommon name in a li
m
ited area is improbable. These three holdings are interspersed with those already discussed, forming a line across southern Sussex and Kent between Muntham (SUS 13,15) in the west and Sellindge in the east. It seems more likely than not that the bulk of t
hese holdings, possibly all of them, had belonged to the same individual, allowed to survive on a fraction of his former holdings by his supplanters, as was often the case elsewhere. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15601001 English Nobility}{
\insrsid15601001 , whose list omits the holding recorded in the }{\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\insrsid15601001  and also SUS 9,4 and 12,24;27;32 (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab HELTO THE STEWARD. See 5,2 Helto note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab OSWARD THE SHERIFF. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 1,2\tab ANSGOT [* OF ROCHEST
ER *]. Tenant of the Bishop of Bayeux, principally in Kent but also in Bedfordshire and Surrey, and possibly also in Buckinghamshire (4,35) where he is named Ansgot of Rots. As the only Ansgot in that county, his tenure from the Bishop makes the identific
ation a probable one. No Ansgots other than tenants of the Bishop are recorded either in Kent or Bedfordshire, and only one unidentified Ansgot in Surrey, so the tenurial argument for identification is compelling. See also Keats-Rohan, }{
\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday People}{\insrsid15601001 , p. 157 (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 
THE CASTLE. The original motte and bailey castle at Rochester, sited on Boley Hill outside the south-west angle of the city walls (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 1,3\tab HUGH OF PORT HOLDS. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 3) adds 'from the Bishop 
of Bayeux. ... Edward held it' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See D8 Wadard note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab THE ABBOT OF ST AUGUSTINE'S HOLDS. The }{
\i\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 p. 3) adds 'From these s
ulungs (the Abbot of) St Augustine has his part which was proved in the hundred of Milton and in the county (court) of Kent in the time of William I' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab CHURCHES AND TITHES. The }{\i\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\insrsid15601001  p.}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 4) gives }{\up6\insrsid15601001 '}{
\insrsid15601001 8 prebends and a church' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 1,4\tab LATER \'a360. Farley has }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 ix}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  in error for }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 lx }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,1\tab [* IN THE BOROUGH LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab THE CLERICS OF THE TOWN. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 82) adds '32 messuages and a mill which the}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 clerics of St Gregory hold near their church'. The church was the priory of Augustinian}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
canons founded in 1084 by Archbishop Lanfranc (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,2\tab SANDWICH. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 89) adds 'Sandwich is Holy Trinity's manor for the monks'}{\insrsid15601001  }
{\cf1\insrsid15601001 clothing. It is in its own lathe and hundred'. There is no evidence that Sandwich was a}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 lathe and the reference would seem to be an error. See \{Introduction: Administrative Divisions\}. The 
}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
p. 20) adds 'In this Borough St Augustine's has 1 acre. In this acre St Augustine's also has a church'. Compare 5,189 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,3\tab 
[* IN THE HALF-LATHE OF SUTTON *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab VALUE \'a315 10s. The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
88) adds 'It is assessed at \'a315. Richard has 10s in his castle (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 infra castellum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  )'.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
The castle is that at Tonbridge, the centre of Richard of Tonbridge's territory. See 2,4 territory note (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,4\tab OTFORD. Concerning Otford and Sundridge (2,5) }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 87) adds 'these manors were in 'Codsheath'}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hundred'. The hundred is not otherwise mentioned in Domesday (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab 3 THANES. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 87) identifies them and the value of their holdings: 'What Haimo}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 holds is assessed at 60s and 10s. What Robert Latimer [}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 interpres}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
] and Geoffrey of Rots hold at \'a38 10s' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab WHAT RICHARD OF TONBRIDGE HOLDS IN H
IS TERRITORY. Richard of Tonbridge, son of Count Gilbert of Brionne, held what was later to become the Lowy of Tonbridge. This was not a compact block of land and had no clear boundary. Its primary purpose was the maintenance of Tonbridge castle in the af
termath of the Conquest, an offensive role shared with other compact lordships such as the Sussex Rapes, and in Kent the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 divisio }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
or territory of Hugh de Montfort (see 5,130 territory note). Richard held the manors of Yalding, East Barming, Hadlow and Tudeley but the greater part of his holdings consisted of the denes}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
of upland manors located in the Weald around th
e castle and manor of Tonbridge. Domesday surveys 24 of them in the accounts of the manors to which they were formerly dependent, usually prefacing the entry with the formula 'What Richard of Tonbridge holds in his territory'. See Mortimer, 'Honour of Cla
re'; Ward, 'Lowy of Tonbridge' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 2,5\tab SUNDRIDGE. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 87) adds 'which Godwin held unjustly before 1066. The}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 archbishop, that is Lanfranc, gained it justly by the king's grant in a plea against the Bishop of Bayeux'. See D23 Penenden note.}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab \tab According to the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, p. 87), this manor was in 'Codsheath' Hundred; see 2,4 Otford note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 13s 6d. The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 xiii solid}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 '}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 7 }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 dim'}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  ['13 \'bd s'] with }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 id est vi d}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ' ['that is, 6d'] interlined (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 2,7\tab CRAYFORD. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 86) adds 'Osward held it from the archbishop before 1066' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 2,10\tab WROTHAM. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
87) gives the taxable value of the men-at-arms' holdings:}{\insrsid15601001 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab \tab William the Bursar. 'It is assessed at \'a33'.
\par \tab \tab Geoffrey of Rots. 'It is assessed at \'a33'.
\par \tab \tab Farman. 'It is assessed at 100s' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab GEOFFREY HOLDS 1 SULUNG. Perhaps at Yaldham: Colvin, 'Archbishop of Canterbury's Tenants', p. 30 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 1 \'bd YOKES. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
87) gives 'l \'bd sulungs' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 2,11\tab MAIDSTONE. The }{\i\insrsid15601001 
Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\insrsid15601001  p.}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 95) adds 'Wulfric and Cola hold }{\i\insrsid15601001 Burgericestune
}{\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 \'bd sulung there. It pays 100d to the altar of Holy Trinity. This \'bd sulung is from the 10 sulungs in Maidstone' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 3 MEN-AT-ARMS. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 86) adds 'Ralph holds 1 sulung which is assessed at 50s.}{\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 William, brother of Bishop Gundulf, holds 2 sulungs. They are assessed at \'a310. Ansketil of Rots holds 1 sulung which is assessed at 60s'. The sulung belonging to Ansketil was perhaps a
t Cossington; see Colvin, 'Archbishop of Canterbury's Tenants', p. 21 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 2 MEN OF THIS MANOR. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
86) adds '2 men have 1 sulung which pays 16s to the altar of Holy Trinity. Value of this sulung, however, 20s' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,12\tab TOTAL VALUE OF THIS MANOR. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 85) gives 'What the archbishop has in}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 lordship is assessed at \'a318; what Ansketil of Rots and Robert }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Brutin}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 hold, 40s; however, it pays the archbishop \'a325 18s' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,13\tab [* IN THE BOROUGH LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab TOTAL VALUE OF THIS MANOR. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 84) gives 'It is assessed at \'a342 5s less 3 farthings [}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 minutes}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ]'. Farthing appears only once in Domesday; see CHS S3,2 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,14\tab IT PAYS \'a350 14s 2d. 'It is assessed at \'a351 5s': Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 84 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 

\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab VITALIS [!2! OF CANTERBURY !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Vitalis of Canterbury, according to the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 84). Named and depicted in the Bayeux Tapestry where he is shown being questioned by Duke William as to the location of Harold's army; see Stenton, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Bayeux Tapestry}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 plate 56 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 3 SULUNGS, 1 YOKE AND 12 ACRES. '1 sulung and 1 yoke and 1 \'bd sulungs in Thanet. He also has 12 acres and \'bd sulung in Makinbrook and Stourmouth from the archbishop': Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 84 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,15\tab HOLD 1 \'bd SULUNGS. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 83) adds 'From these sulungs}{
\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Godfrey the steward holds \'bd sulung which belongs to the monks' clothing. That is Swarling. Nigel has 1 sulung and 1 yoke which is assessed at 40s'. It also adds that Godfrey held Swarling 'at farm': Douglas, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 95 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,16\tab THERE ARE ONLY 25. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 12) and the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 81) add '25 burgesses who pay 10s}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
in tribute' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab NEW LODGING. The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Inoua }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 In noua}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 corrected by an interlined }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 n }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab OF THIS MANOR 5 OF THE ARCHBISHOP'S MEN. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , pp.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 
81-82) adds 'Godfrey the steward holds 1 sulung from the archbishop in Thanington. It is assessed at 100s. Vitalis has 1 yoke from the archbishop. It is assessed at 20s. Robert of Hardres holds 1 yoke. It is assessed at 30s. Aethelward holds 3 yokes 
in Nackington which before 1066 paid and still pays 12s to the altar of Holy Trinity. It is assessed at 40s. Albold holds 1 yoke at }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Wic}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
It is from the land of the monks of Holy Trinity which is assessed at 30s' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab HAIMO THE SHERIFF HOLDS. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 82) adds 'Haimo likewise holds \'bd
 sulung which Alric Big held from the archbishop before 1066. It is assessed at 100s'. It was perhaps at Milton, near Canterbury: Colvin, 'Archbishop of Canterbury's Tenants', p. 2 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,17\tab BARHAM HUNDRED. Later Kinghamford Hundred: Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 552 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,18\tab [* IN WYE LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 5 SULUNGS. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 84) 
gives '5 \'bd sulungs' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab TOTAL VALUE. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
84) adds 'Before 1066 it was assessed at \'a310 and the archbishop has 100s and 15 and 3d in tribute; now, however, the value is \'a320 but it pays \'a325 at a revenue and the archbishop has his tribute as before' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,19\tab IT ANSWERS FOR 8 SULUNGS. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 85) adds 'Before 1066 it answered for 8}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 sulungs, now for 7 because the archbishop has the other for his plough' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab TOTAL VALUE BEFORE 1066. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 85) gives 'Value before 1066, \'a320; the archbishop has \'a34 7s in tribute. Now the value is \'a330 but it pays \'a340 at a revenue and the archbishop has tribute as before' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,21\tab VALUE OF THE WHOLE 40s. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 83) gives 'Value \'a36' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 5 OF THE ARCHBISHOP'S MEN. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 83) identifies them: 'Vitalis has 1 sulung. Value 45s'. This was probably at Walmestone in Wingham; see Colvin, 'Archbishop of Canterbury's Tenants', p. 14. 'Wibert and Arnold have 3 sulungs. Value \'a3
12'. Perhaps Ratling in Nonington; see Colvin, 'Archbisho
p of Canterbury's Tenants', p. 23. 'Heringod has 1 sulung less 10 acres. Value 40s'. Probably Knell and Goss Hall in Ash; see Colvin, 'Archbishop of Canterbury's Tenants', p. 25. 'Godfrey the arblaster has 1 \'bd
 sulungs. Value 100s'. Probably Overland in Ash; see Colvin, 'Archbishop of Canterbury's Tenants', p. 26 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,22\tab [* IN WYE LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab IT ANSWERED FOR 6 SULUNGS. The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 p' vi. solins se def'd'}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Judging by the position of}{\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 the full stop and a greyish patch it once read }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 vii.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , but the second minim has been scratched out. Farley renders as }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 p' vii. solins se def'd'}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 although the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 91) supports a reading of the manuscript as corrected and suggests that the alteration was made by the Domesday copyist (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab NOW FOR 3. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
91) adds 'When the archbishop acquired it, for 5 \'bd . Hugh de Montfort has the moiety of them. Value \'a318' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,23\tab NOW FOR 15 SULUNGS. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\b\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 83) gives '20' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,24\tab 1 \'bd SULUNGS. Probably in error for 1 sulung, as suggested by the value clause. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition', 14) and the }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 82) give '1 sulung'. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
82) adds that this land was part of the 7 sulungs of Westgate, in which case the Domesday entry would appear to duplicate information given earlier in 2,16 under the holdings of the archbishop's men (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab RALPH [!2! THE CHAMBERLAIN !2!]. He is Ralph t}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 he chamberlain: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 82 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,25\tab 85 BURGESSES. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
84) has 'In Romney Marsh 25 burgesses who belong to Aldington' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab STOWTING. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
83) gives 'William of Arques has 1 manor, Stowting, which Alfhere}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 held from the archbishop. Then it answered for 1 \'bd sulungs; now for 1. Value \'a310' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,26\tab 3 OF THE ARCHBISHOP'S MEN. 'Robert son of Watson has 2 sulungs as a Holding;}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Robert of Hardres, \'bd sulung, and Osbern Paisforiere, \'bd yoke': Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 84 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 2,27\tab NEWENDEN. The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 92) refers to the archbishop's manor of }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Niuuendene }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 in}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Silverden Hundred in 'Lim
en' Lathe which would seem to be this holding. On the basis of additional information given in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 entry David Douglas' footnote raised the possibility that the entry referred to the holding of Hugh de Montfort in Newington (5,204. 9,37-38), although in the context this would seem less likely. The full }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001  entry is here reproduced: 'Newenden. In 'Limen' Lathe. In Silverden Hundred. The archbishop has 1 manor from the monks' land in lordship, Newenden. Before 1066 Leofric 
held it from the former archbishop. It answers for 1 sulung with Saltwood. Now it is assessed at \'a38 1s in gifts' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,28\tab [* IN THE HALF-LATHE OF SUTTON *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab ANSGOT [!2! OF ROCHESTER !2!]. Ansgot of Rochester [}{\i\insrsid15601001 rubitoniensis}{\insrsid15601001 ]: Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\insrsid15601001  }{\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\insrsid15601001 , p.}{
\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 95 (PM).
\par \tab \tab See also 1,2 Ansgot note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab FARNINGHAM. 'It is for the monks' clothing': Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 95 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,29\tab RICHARD OF TONBRIDGE HOLDS. 'Richard has as much as is assessed at \'a33':}{\insrsid15601001  Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }
{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 88 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,30\tab [* IN "HELMESTREI" HUNDRED *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab 3 YOKES. 'These 3 yokes did not pay tax with this manor. They are from the pleading which the archbishop made against the Bishop of Bayeux with the king's agreement': Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\insrsid15601001  }{
\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 94. See D23 Penenden note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,31\tab BRASTED. 'This manor is in the Hundred of Westerham': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 86; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 70 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab ABBOT ALNOTH HELD THIS MANOR. 'Young Wulfnoth held Brasted from the}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 archbishop before 1066': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 86 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,32\tab [* IN AYLESFORD LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab [* IN EYHORNE HUNDRED *]. The rubric is omitted}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 in the manuscript (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 2,33\tab BOUGHTON [MALHERBE].}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'Ratel held Boughton [Malherbe] from the Archbishop of}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Canterbury before 1066': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 91 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,34\tab [* IN WYE LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab RICHARD [!2! THE CONSTABLE !2!]. Richard t}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 he constable: }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 93 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab LEAVELAND [COURT].}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'The Deacon of Canterbury had and held this land': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 93 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 2,35\tab RICHARD [!2! THE CONSTABLE !2!]. Richard t}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 he constable: }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 95 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab GRAVENEY.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'It is from the monks' clothing': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 95 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,37\tab IN TEYNHAM HUNDRED. Not otherwise mentioned in Domesday. Teynham itself is not}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 surveyed, although the following detail appears in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 85) as a preface to the entry for Sheppey: 'Teynham is the archb
ishop's manor. Before 1066 it answered for 5 \'bd sulungs; now the same. It is assessed at \'a350' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab GODFREY ^[THE STEWARD]^. Godfrey of}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  Malling: }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 85 (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab SHEPPEY.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'Osward held it from the archbishop before 1066': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 85 (PM).}{\insrsid15601001 
\par \tab \tab See also 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,38\tab [* IN EASTRY LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,39\tab FINGLESHAM. Later in 'Cornilo' Hundred, although the place lies close to the boundary with Eastry Hundred; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, p. 570. 'Leofnoth held it from the archbishop before 1066. Value 20s': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 89 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab STATENBOROUGH. 'Godwin held it from Archbishop Edsi before 1066. Value 30s}{\up6\insrsid15601001 '}{\insrsid15601001 : Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\insrsid15601001 
, p. 89. Edsi had been archbishop from 1035 to 1050 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 2,40\tab WILLIAM [!2! FOLLET !2!]. William}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  Follet: }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 89 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2,41\tab [* IN 'LIMEN' LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab SALTWOOD. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 'Earl Godwin held it. It answered for 7 sulungs; now there are 5; however, it is not taxed except for 3': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 93 (PM).}{\insrsid15601001 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab \tab Peter Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15601001 
English Nobility}{\insrsid15601001 , pp. 164-169, does not include the three manors in Kent said to have been held by Earl Godwin in the }{\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\insrsid15601001 
 (2,5;41;43). The Domesday entries do not name the 1066 holders. Godwin is such a common name that identifying the earl where his title in not supplied is difficult. However, the earl is frequently named
: between them, the counties of Sussex, Surrey, Kent and Hampshire can muster fewer than half-a-dozen manors valued at \'a3
5 or more held by an unidentified Godwin; none of these are in Kent. In Sussex, Godwin is likely to be the earl at Tilton (SUS 10,20-21)
 since his son held in the same vill (SUS 9,43), and at Sheffield, held in freehold from the Crown (SUS 10,111). Peter Clarke adds Mayfield (SUS 11,118) (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 
225 BURGESSES. 'From whom Hugh de Montfort has nothing except 3 forfeitures': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, p. 93. The 'three forfeitures' are probably robbery, breach of the peace and highway robbery (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab IN THE BOROUGH OF HYTHE. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 93) describes Saltwood as lying in 'Limen' Lathe, in the Hundred of Hythe. Domesday nowhere refers to Hythe as a hundred which, if it existed in 1086, makes no further appearance in the records; see Wallenberg,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 459. It is possible that the copyist of the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 wrote }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hede }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 in error for 
}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hen}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , that is,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Heane Hundred, in which Saltwood lay (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 2,42\tab BERWICK.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'Godric the deacon held it': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 92 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 2,43\tab LANGPORT.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'Which the archbishop proved against the Bishop of Bayeux. Earl Godwin held it': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 92. See D23 Penenden note. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 92) adds '1 yoke belongs elsewhere' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 3,1\tab [* IN THE HALF-LATHE OF SUTTON *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab ORPINGTON.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'A free man held it before 1066': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 94 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 2 \'bd SULUNGS. 'From these sulungs Deormann has \'bd sulung at Keston': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 94 (PM).}{\insrsid15601001 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab \tab }{\insrsid15601001 This Deormann is probably the Deormann of London, who is subsequently recorded as a knight of the archbishop: see Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\insrsid15601001 
, pp. 62-63, 104; and Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday People}{\insrsid15601001 , pp. 177. See also ESS B3a Deormann note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 3,2\tab ONE OF THE ARCHBISHOP'S MEN HOLDS \'bd SULUNG. 'In 'Stokenbury' which Edric}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 held from King Edward': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 94. The place, now lost, is perhaps commemorated by Stocking Lane in the adjoining parish of East Farleigh; see Wallenberg,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 166. The field-names Stockenbury Meadows, Stocke
nbury Wood Field, Little Stockenbury Field and Stockbury Wood are recorded in 1578 on the site of Borough's Oak Farm (TQ671497) in East Peckham. I am grateful to Mrs. Margaret Laurence for this reference. See also 5,61 (PM).}{\insrsid15601001 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab \tab See also 5,129 Edric note for the identification as Edric as Edric of Elham (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,4\tab MEOPHAM.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'It is from the monks' food': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 94 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab WHAT IS VALUED AT 18s 6d. '18s 8d': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 94 (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,5\tab WHAT GODFREY [!2! THE STEWARD !2!]}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  [HOLDS]. 'Hunton is the monks' manor for their clothing. It answers}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 for \'bd
 sulung which Godfrey the steward holds and pays a revenue. This \'bd sulung is from}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 the 6 sulungs of Farleigh': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 95 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab WHAT ABEL [!2! THE MONK !2!]}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 NOW HOLDS. 'Loose is the monks' manor for their clothing. It answers for 1 sulung. Abel the monk holds it and pays a revenue to the monks. This sulung lies in the 6 sulungs of Farleigh': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 95 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,6\tab CLIFFE. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 'It is from the monks' clothing. Before 1066 it answered for 2 \'bd sulungs': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 94 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 3,7\tab MONKTON. 'For their food': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
p. 89 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,8\tab WILLIAM [!2! OF ADISHAM !2!].}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'William of Adisham holds 1 sulung at Ruckinge. Value \'a37': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 90 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,9\tab NORTHGATE. Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Nordeurde}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (Northwood). So also the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Nordwda}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
: (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 88). The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 12) gives }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Norgate}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , that is, Northgate (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 100 BURGESSES LESS 3. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 12) gives '100 burgesses less 19' (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab WHO PAY \'a38 4s. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
88) has \'a38 0s 6d. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 12) gives \'a39 0s 6d (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,10\tab SEASALTER. The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 90) adds 'Land for 2 ploughs. This manor is in no hundred'. It}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 was later in Whitstable Hundred; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, p. 100 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab BLIZE.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Blittaere}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 according to the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
(Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 90). This is perhaps a garbled Anglo-Norman attempt at the rare Old English}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
personal name Blithhere: von Feilitzen, 'Unrecorded Old and Middle English Personal Names', p. 75; von Feilitzen, \lquote Personal Names of the Winton Domesday', p. 151 note 3), or Old German Blithgaer (}{\insrsid15601001 F\'f6rstemann,}{
\i\insrsid15601001  Personennamen}{\insrsid15601001 ,}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  p. 313) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,11\tab [SOUTH] PRESTON. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 'For their clothing': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 93 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,12\tab CHARTHAM. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 'For their clothing': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 90 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,13\tab GODMERSHAM. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 'For their clothing': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
p. 90 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,14\tab [GREAT] CHART.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'For their clothing': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 90 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,15\tab LITTLE CHART.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'For their food. Before 1066 it answered for 3 sulungs; now for 2}{\cf1\up6\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \'bd :}{\insrsid15601001  Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 90 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 2 \'bd HIDES. Probably in error for 2 \'bd sulungs as in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 90) (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab WILLIAM [!2! SON OF ERMENFRID !2!] }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 HOLDS. 'William son of Ermenfrid has \'bd sulung in Pett from the archbishop}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
as a holding. It pays 25d to the altar of Holy Trinity for all customs': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 90 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,17\tab GIDDINGE. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday entry would appear to locate this place in Eastry Hundred, although,}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
like Denton, it was later in Kinghamford Hundred. Denton is similarly entered under Eastry Hundred in Domesday; see 5,220 Denton note (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab VALUE \'a336 10s 4\'bcd. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 88) gives \'a337 10s 3d.}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 3,18\tab ADISHAM.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  Later in Downhamford Hundred in The Borough Lathe. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , pp.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 89-90) records}{\insrsid15601001 :}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'This manor is itself a hundred and is in Eastry Lathe'. The Domesday identification is}{\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 retained here (PM).}{\insrsid15601001 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab \tab 'Adisham is the monks' of Holy Trinity's manor for their food': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 89 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab 2 MEN-AT-ARMS. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 'Robert son of Watson has 2 sulungs. That is Eythorne. Value \'a37.}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Roger holds 1 sulung at Barham. Value \'a34': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{
\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 90 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab IT PAYS \'a346 16s 4d. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 90) gives \'a316 16s 4d (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 3,19\tab [* IN 'LIMEN' LATHE *]. The lathe rubric is omitted in the manuscript but added at 3,20 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 3,21\tab [* IN WYE LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab ONE MANOR. 'Robert of Romney holds one manor, Brook, at a revenue for the monks' food': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 92 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 3,22\tab [* IN 'LIMEN' LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab ALMS-LAND. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, p. 84) associates this sulung with Lyminge but then adds, 'In Romney Marsh lies 1 sulung of }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Aelmesland }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 from the alms of the monks of Holy Trinity. It is not from the above-mentioned sulungs. From t
hat sulung William Follet has 1 yoke, that is }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Sturtune}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 From that same sulung Robert has 3 yokes, that is Orgarswick, Castweazel and }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Eadruneland}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 '.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 From this entry it is clear that the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Asmelant}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  of Domesday and the}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Aelmesland}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001  of the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 is not a place-name, but a sulung of alms-land belonging to Holy Trinity, the four yokes of which lay in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Sturtune}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Orgarswick, Castweazel and }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Eadruneland}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 A reference to alms-land (Old English }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 almeslond}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 appears also in a charter of King Athelstan to Milton Abbey: Sawyer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Anglo-Saxon Charters}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, no. 391. In transcribing a minuscule }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Almeslant}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 the Domesday clerk clearly misread a long }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 s }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 for an }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 l}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 . The identification of }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Asmelant }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 as Gammons in Orgarswick is based on a misreading of Wallenberg, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Kentish Place Names}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , pp. 267-69 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 4,1\tab [*IN THE HALF-LATHE OF SUTTON *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab [* IN AXTON HUNDRED *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 96) assigns 4,1-4 to Axton Hundred (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab IN TONBRIDGE. That is, in the territory of Richard of Tonbridge (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 4,2\tab NOW FOR 4 SULUNGS. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 96) gives it as 3 sulungs (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 4,6\tab [* IN AYLESFORD LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab [* IN LARKFIELD HUNDRED *]. The rubric is omitted}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 in the manuscript. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 97) assigns 4,6-9 to Larkfield Hundred (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab VALUE NOW \'a312. 'It is assessed at \'a313': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 96 (PM).
}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 4,10\tab VALUE NOW \'a310 10s. 'It is assessed at \'a310': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  
}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 97 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 4,11\tab VALUE NOW \'a37 15s. 'It is assessed at \'a36 10s': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 97 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 4,15\tab THEY PAY \'a311 13s 4d. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 97) gives \'a311 13s 3d (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 4,16\tab VALUE NOW \'a38 0s 20d. 'It is assessed at \'a38': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 98 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab ARCHBISHOP LANFRANC PROVED [HIS CLAIM]. A reference to the land plea at Penenden Heath in 1072; see D23 Penenden note (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,2\tab 
HELTO [* THE STEWARD *]. Helto the steward is named as holding illegally part of the royal manor of Dartford in Kent. All other occurrences of this name in Domesday Book ar
e in Buckinghamshire and Kent, as a tenant of the Bishop of Bayeux so there can be little doubt that all refer to the same individual. See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday People}{\insrsid15601001 , p. 247 (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab OF THE WOODLAND. The manuscript has }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 De silva}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Farley renders it as }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 De Silva }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab VALUE OF THE WHOLE MANOR \'a320. After this and before the 1086 value, the manuscript leaves a gap probably for an intermediate value when acquired (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,3\tab VALUE OF THE WHOLE MANOR \'a33. After this and before the 1086 value, the manuscript leaves a gap probably for an intermediate value when acquired (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,4\tab 
YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,5\tab ANSGOT OF ROCHESTER. See 1,2 Ansgot note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,6\tab 
ADAM SON OF HUBERT. Adam of Ryes near Bayeux, brother of Eudo the steward; see Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 29 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab \tab See also 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,7\tab 'SONNINGS'.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  A lost place, surviving as a field name in the modern parish of Horton}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Kirby (TQ580683); see Bamping, 'Domesday Name' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,8\tab YOUNG BRICTSI. See 5,18 Brictsi note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,13\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See D8 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab \'bd MILL AT 5s. The manuscript has '\'bd
 mill at 5 sulungs',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 obviously in error (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab 
"ESTAN" <OF FARNINGHAM>. Apart from the Bishop of Hereford, the name }{\i\insrsid15601001 Estan}{\insrsid15601001  occurs on fifteen holdings in Domesday 
Book, probably representing seven or eight individuals. Despite the distance separating these two properties (also LIN 4,7), they were probably held by the same individual since they not only devolved upon one tenant-in-chief but both were subinfeudated t
o the same tenant, Wadard <of Cogges> (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,14\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See D8 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab [* EARL *] HAROLD. See P20 Harold note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,17\tab ANSKETIL ^[OF ROTS]^. Ansketil o}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 f Rots: }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 101 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,18\tab 
[* YOUNG *] BRICTSI. Young Bricsti held full jurisdiction in western Kent (D25) and is named as the predecessor as Bishop Odo of Bayeux on three occasions. Greenwich (5,29) and Hatcham (SUR 5,10), acquired by Bishop Odo in western Kent from a Brictsi, wer
e
 granted to the Bishop of Lisieux; these and the nearby Plumstead (5,21), probably belonged to the same individual who is unlikely to have been a second Brictsi. Elsewhere in Surrey, Young Bricsti is named as the predecessor of Richard of Tonbridge at Sto
k
e d'Abernon and was probably the Brictsi who held two substantial manors to which Walter son of Other succeeded, the closest a little over five miles away from Stoke. Young Brictsi is not named in Sussex; but the Brictsi who held two valuable manors in so
uth Sussex (SUS 11,67 and 13,49) may well be the same individual, and possibly he at Itford (SUS 10,11) also. The only other Brictsis holding manors valued at \'a3
10 or more were the predecessors of Arnulf of Hesdin in Wiltshire (WIL 25,1), of William of Falai
se in Somerset (SOM 27,1), and of Aiulf the chamberlain in Dorset (DOR 49,12), all or each of whom might have been Young Brictsi; but there are no tenurial or other associations to support an identification. See Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15601001 
English Nobility}{\insrsid15601001 , pp. 265-66, who attributes the Sussex holdings to Young Brictsi but not those further afield; Williams, 'Lost Worlds: Kentish Society in the Eleventh Century' (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab ORDING [* OF HORTON *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab THESE 4 MANORS ARE NOW ... . The Phil
limore printed edition has 'Now there are 4 manors'; the failure to translate }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 H}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 aec}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ] ('these') misled PM whose note reads: 'The manuscript has }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 tenuit de Heraldo}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  H}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The meaning of the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 H }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 is not apparent'.}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab [* EARL *] HAROLD. See P20 Harold note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,20\tab ANSGOT [!2! OF ROCHESTER !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
103) associates this land with others held by Ansgot}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 of Rochester (PM). }{\insrsid15601001 See also 1,2 Ansgot note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 'HOWBURY'. A lost place surviving as Howbury Lane in Crayford; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 30 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,21\tab YOUNG BRICTSI. See 5,18 Brictsi note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,24\tab ADAM SON OF HUBERT. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab 
[ST MARY] CRAY. The manuscript has 'South Cray'. The place was known as St Mary Cray from at least the mid-thirteenth century, after the dedication of the parish church; see Wallenberg,}{\i\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\insrsid15601001 
, p. 20 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,25\tab ADAM ^[SON OF HUBERT]^. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,26\tab SEAL. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Later in 'Codsheath' Hundred: Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 63 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab YOUNG BRICTSI. See 5,18 Brictsi note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,27\tab [NORTH] CRAY. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Thus Wallenberg,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 19 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,28\tab 
YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,29\tab EARL HAROLD. See P20 Harold note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab [* YOUNG *] BRICTSI. See 5,18 Brictsi note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,31\tab [!2! RALPH !2!] SON OF TUROLD OF ROCHESTER. }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 Ralph son of Turold according to the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 102) (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,34\tab [FOOTS] CRAY. Thus Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 18 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,35\tab ANSKETIL [!2! OF ROTS !2!]. Ansketil o}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 f Rots: }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101 (PM).}
{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,37\tab ESBIORN BIG. See 5,42 Esbiorn note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,38\tab 
SANDLINGS. 'Alfgeat held Sandlings from the archbishop before 1066': }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 94 (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,39\tab ANSGOT OF ROCHESTER. See 1,2 Ansgot note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,40\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. A major tenant of the Bishop of Bayeux, brother of Eudo the steward, and one of the wealt
hiest post-Conquest landowners despite holding nothing directly from the Crown. Apart from two holdings in Kent, all his estates were held from the Bishop which makes it possible to identify him with some confidence, particularly in view of the infrequenc
y of the name elsewhere than on the fief of the Bishop of Bayeux. See Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday People}{\insrsid15601001 , p. 123 (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,41\tab ANSKETIL [!2! OF ROTS !2!]. Ansketil o}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 f Rots: }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,42\tab 
ESBIORN [* BIG *]. Esbiorn Big held several substantial manors in Kent before the Conquest, most of which devolved upon the Bishop of Bayeux and in most of which he was named. The Esbiorn who held Ditton was probably the same man since this a
nother substantial holding acquired by the Bishop and was just three miles from the Big manor at Birling. It is likely that he was also the Esbiorn at Atherstone in Warwickshire, (WAR 4,2) despite the distance involved, since this, too, devolved upon the 
B
ishop of Bayeux who had subinfeudated it to Corbin of Agneaux, a tenant of his at West Peckham, just a few miles from Birling. It is also conceivable that Esbiorn held the large manor at Compton (SUR 18,1. SUS 11,36), near Chichester, acquired by Earl Rog
er of Shrewsbury, though there are no tenurial associations to support this (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,44\tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,48\tab 
NASHENDEN. Entered by Domesday in Larkfield Hundred, although the place was later in}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Rochester Hundred; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, p. 126. It lies close to the hundred boundary (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,53\tab ROCHESTER. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Rouecest'}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 'corrected' by Farley to }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Roucest' }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,55\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See D8 Wadard note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,56\tab ANSKETIL [!2! OF ROTS !2!]. Ansketil o}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 f Rots: }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 101 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,57\tab ESBIORN BIG. See 5,42 Esbiorn note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,59\tab CORBIN [* OF AGNEAUX *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,61\tab 'STOKENBURY'. See 3,2 sulung note.}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,62\tab 
IN THE LATHE OF AYLESFORD. The rubric would appear to be redundant, as that at 5,40 still applies. See 5,90 lathe note (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,63\tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,67\tab AETHELWOLD [* THE CHAMBERLAIN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab LEEDS. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
'Earl Leofwin held Leeds from King Edward. It answered for 3 sulungs; now it}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 answers for 2 sulungs. Aethelwold held it from the Bishop of Bayeux but now King}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
William has it in his hand': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 2) (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab FROM THE BISHOP. Farley error: }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 ten' ep'o }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 ten' de ep'o }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab BISHOP OF BAYEUX'S PARK. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 2) locates it at }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Wicham }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Wickhambreux) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 4 PIG PASTURES. 'Count Robert of Eu holds 4 pig pastures from this manor in Sussex':}{\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 2) (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,68\tab ANSGOT OF ROCHESTER. See 1,2 Ansgot note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,69\tab ANSGOT ^[OF ROCHESTER]^. See 1,2 Ansgot note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,70\tab HOLDS ALLINGTON. Farley, in error, has }{
\i\insrsid15601001 ten' de ALNOITONE }{\insrsid15601001 for }{\i\insrsid15601001 ten' ALNOITONE }{\insrsid15601001 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,71\tab ADAM SON OF HUBERT. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab SUTTON [VALENCE].}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 The identification here follows Hasted, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 History of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , ii. p. 409 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,72\tab ADAM ^[SON OF HUBERT]^. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,73\tab ADAM ^[SON OF HUBERT]^. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,74\tab ADAM ^[SON OF HUBERT]^. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,75\tab ADAM ^[SON OF HUBERT]^. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,76\tab ADAM ^[SON OF HUBERT]^. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,77\tab ADAM ^[SON OF HUBERT]^. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,84\tab AETHELWOLD [* THE CHAMBERLAIN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,85\tab AETHELWOLD [* THE CHAMBERLAIN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,86\tab ESBIORN BIG. See 5,42 Esbiorn note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,87\tab ESBIORN BIG. See 5,42 Esbiorn note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,88\tab 
[* IN CHATHAM HUNDRED *]. The rubric is not entered in the manuscript until 5,89 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,90\tab IN THE LATHE OF AYLESFORD. The rubric would appear to be redundant, as that at}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,40 still applies. See 5,62 lathe note (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,91\tab ANSGOT OF ROCHESTER. See 1,2 Ansgot note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,92\tab ANSGOT ^[OF ROCHESTER]^. See 1,2 Ansgot note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,93\tab ADAM SON OF HUBERT. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,94\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab PIMP'S [COURT].}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 Later in Maidstone Hundred but entered here under Twyford Hundred; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 138.}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The place is close to the hundred boundary (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,95\tab ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,96\tab HAIMO [!2! THE SHERIFF !2!]. Haimo the s}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 heriff: }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 103 (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab NORTHMANN <OF MEREWORTH>. See D17 Northman note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,99\tab AETHELWOLD [!2! THE CHAMBERLAIN !2!]. }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 Aethelwold the chamberlain: }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 101 (PM).}
{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,100\tab AETHELWOLD [!2! THE CHAMBERLAIN !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Aethelwold the chamberlain: }{\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 101 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,102\tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab HELTO [* THE STEWARD *]. See 5,2 Helto note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,103\tab [* IN WRO
THAM HUNDRED *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,104\tab [* IN 'SHAMWELL' HUNDRED *]. The heading is not entered in the manuscript until the end of 5,107 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,105\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,106\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,107\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,108\tab HUNEF <OF OAKLEIGH>. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab EARL HAROLD. See P20 Harold note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,109\tab ANSGOT OF ROCHESTER. See 1,2 Ansgot note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,111\tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,114\tab HELTO [* THE STEWARD *]. See 5,2 Helto note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,115\tab 3 SULUNGS. The manuscript repeats }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 solins }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 at the start of the second line, corrected by Farley with the gap indicated by a line of dots (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,116\tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,117\tab STUPPINGTON. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Interlined. Later in Faversham Hundred but entered here under Milton Hundred; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 289. The place lies close to the hundred boundary (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,118\tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,121\tab 
STELLING. Later partly in 'Loningborough' Hundred and partly in Stowting Hundred in}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Wye Lathe, but entered here under Bridge Hundred; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 437. The place is close to the hundred boundary (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,122\tab BEKESBOURNE. The place was also known as }{\i\insrsid15601001 Lyvyngisbourn}{\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 after a descendant of the }{\i\insrsid15601001 T.R.E. }{\insrsid15601001 
holder, as late as the sixteenth century. The modern form commemorates a twelfth-century holder; see Wallenberg,}{\i\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\insrsid15601001 , pp. 540-41; Reaney, 'Survey of Kent Place-Names', p. 64 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 

\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,124\tab ALFRED BICGA. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Bicga}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 used here as a byname. The personal name appears in SUR 5,22; see }{
\insrsid15601001 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid15601001 , p. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 202; compare }{\insrsid15601001 Tengvik, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Old English Bynames}{\insrsid15601001 , p.}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001  290 (PM). The Phillimore printed edition has Alfred Big, perhaps influenced by Tengvik.}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab HELD THIS MANOR FROM KING EDWARD. The manuscript originally read }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hoc M' tenuit Alured' biga tenuit de rege}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 E. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
but the second and redundant }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 tenuit }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 has been scratched out and is not reproduced by Farley (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab SIRED [* OF CHILHAM *]. The Anglo-Saxon magnate 
named as having jurisdictional privileges in Canterbury and eastern Kent is clearly the man who had held the highly valuable manor of Chilham (5,144), as well as two other significant properties and a number of lesser ones in Kent, all of which devolved u
pon the Bishop of Bayeux. See Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15601001 English Nobility}{\insrsid15601001 , pp. 337-38; Williams, 'Lost Worlds: Kentish Society in the Eleventh Century' (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab GEOFFREY SON OF MALLETERRE. The }{\i\insrsid15601001 
Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 p. 16) identifies him as }{\i\insrsid15601001 Godefridus filius rogeri mala terra}{\insrsid15601001 
 ('Godfrey son of Roger Malleterre'). Although the form }{\i\insrsid15601001 Godefridus }{\insrsid15601001 represents Old German }{\i\insrsid15601001 God}{\insrsid15601001 (}{\i\insrsid15601001 e}{\insrsid15601001 )}{\i\insrsid15601001 frid}{
\insrsid15601001  (Forssner, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Continental-Germanic Personal Names in England}{\insrsid15601001 , pp. 118-19) there was confusion between it and Geoffrey (Domesday }{\i\insrsid15601001 Goisfridus}{\insrsid15601001 , }{
\i\insrsid15601001 Gosfridus}{\insrsid15601001 , }{\i\insrsid15601001 Gaufridus }{\insrsid15601001 
etc.) according to Forssner. If Godfrey is the same man as the Geoffrey here, Roger's name may simply have dropped out at some stage in the Domesday process; see Tengvik, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Old English Bynames}{\insrsid15601001 , p. 349, who gives }{
\i\insrsid15601001 Goisfridus}{\insrsid15601001  as the form in the }{\i\insrsid15601001 Excerpta}{\insrsid15601001  in error.}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,125\tab ADAM SON OF HUBERT. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,126\tab HAIMO THE SHERIFF.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 'Haimo the steward holds Nackington from the Bishop of Bayeux. The burgesses of the city claim this \'bd sulung': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 14) (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab NACKINGTON.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  Later in Bridge and Petham Hundred but entered here under Canterbury}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hundred; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 544. The place is close to the hundred boundary. The identification retained here and followed by }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 VCH Kent }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 iii. p. 233, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Gazetteer}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001  and }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 103 note, and applied also to the 3 yokes which appear in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 103, as dependent on Westgate (see 2,16 manor note). Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , pp. 496-97, argued that this place was Hackington, as suggested by Hasted, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 History of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , iii. p. 594 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,127\tab HAIMO ^[THE SHERIFF]^ }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ALSO HOLDS \'bd SULUNG. The location of this holding is not clear, although}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
the lands which the burgesses of Canterbury claimed from the Bishop of Bayeux would seem to have been between Westgate and Nackington: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 82; }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition', p. 14). See also 2,16 manor note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,128\tab VALUE OF THE WHOLE OF FOLKESTONE. Farley adds a gallows-like section sign}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 which is not present in the manuscript (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,129\tab 
EDRIC [* OF ELHAM *]. Edric of Elham was a wealthy Anglo-Saxon magnate wh
ose estates, all substantial, were concentrated in Kent and devolved upon the Bishop of Bayeux. Named in two entries (5,185;210), he is evidently the Edric who held Elham itself, the most valuable of his manors; and there is little reason to doubt that he
 
is the Edric who preceded the Bishop in other holdings as there appear to have been no other Edrics holding land in the county. Of the two holdings acquired by other tenants-in-chief, Garrington (7,6) had previously been held by the Bishop of Bayeux, and 
N
ewington (9,37) had once been part of 5,204 held by him. It is possible, even probable, that he is the Edric who had held the valuable manor of Dorking from Queen Edith (SUR 1,13) in which the Bishop of Bayeux had an interest; but the details of ownership
 are not entirely clear. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15601001 English Nobility}{\insrsid15601001 , pp. 304-305, who mistakenly names him Edric of Elmham and omits 7,6 and 9,35 (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,130\tab ADAM SON OF HUBERT. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 
HUGH DE MONTFORT'S TERRITORY. Some of Hugh de Montfort's holdings in Kent}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 are described as lying either within (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 infra}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ),}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 or without (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 extra}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 his territory (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 divisio}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 );}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 see 5,130;169;182. 9,1;22;35;37-39;42. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 VCH Kent }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 iii. pp. 188-90, suggests that this was an arrangement, analogous to the Lowy of Tonbridge, which served t
o maintain the castle at Saltwood. Hugh's }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 divisio }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
was likewise not a compact block of lands, but its detail, as recorded in Domesday, suggests a significant reorganization in the pattern of assessment in Kent in the years immediately after the Conquest. Do
mesday also uses the same term to describe the holdings of the Bishop of Bayeux, Ralph of Courb\'e9pine and the Count of Eu on three occasions; see 5,171;175. 9,16 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,131\tab ANSFRID [* MALE THE CLERIC *].}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  He is Ansfrid Male the cleric [Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
101, where the form is }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Mas}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 . An Ansfrid }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 masculus}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  the cleric is a subtenant of St Augustine's, Canterbury (see 7,24 Ansfrid note). Latin }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 masculus }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 which is a diminutive of Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 mas }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 gives Old French }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 masle}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  ('male', 'masculine')]; see }{
\insrsid15601001 Tengvik, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Old English Bynames}{\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  351,}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 under }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Masculus}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ; Reaney, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Dictionary of British Surnames}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , under Male (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,133\tab 1 YOKE. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101) assigns this holding to Ralph of Courb\'e9
pine (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,134\tab AETHELWOLD [!2! THE CHAMBERLAIN !2!]. Aethelwold t}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 he chamberlain: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
101 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab EASOLE. Entered here and at 5,217 in Eastry Hundred but later in Wingham Hundred; see Wallenberg,}{\i\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\insrsid15601001 , p. 534. The place lies close to the hundred boundary (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,135\tab 1 SULUNG IN SHELVING. Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 102, gives '1 yoke' (PM)}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,136\tab 
[* IN BEWSBURY HUNDRED *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript but added at 5,137 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab A MAN-AT-ARMS OF HIS. The Latin is equivocal and might refer either to Osbern or to Odo of Bayeux, although in the context the latter is perhaps more likely (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,138\tab [* IN THE BOROUGH LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 1 SULUNG. Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101, gives '1 \'bd sulungs' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,141\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).
}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,142\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,143\tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,144\tab SIRED [* OF CHILHAM *]. See 5,124 Sired note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,146\tab ANSFRID [!2! MALE THE CLERIC !2!]. }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 He is Ansfrid Male the cleric: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101. On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab "CILDRESHAM". }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 101, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Cyldresham}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 See D18 "Schildricheham" note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,147\tab ANSFRID [!2! MALE THE CLERIC !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 He is Ansfrid Male the cleric: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101. On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,148\tab ANSFRID [!2! MALE THE CLERIC !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 He is Ansfrid Male the cleric: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101. On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab 
SAEWOLD <OF MACKNADE>. Apart from Abbot Saewold, whose name occurs only in }{\i\insrsid15601001 Exon}{\insrsid15601001 . (SOM 7,15 note), the name Saewold occ
urs on thirteen holdings in Domesday Book, probably representing six individuals. The Saewold with half a ploughland in Macnade in 1066 was remote from others bearing that name and unlikely to be linked to them (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,149\tab ANSFRID [!2! MALE THE CLERIC !2!]. }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 He is Ansfrid Male the cleric: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101. On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab BADLESMERE. 'Godric }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Wisce}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  held the manor of Badlesmere from King Edward. It}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
answers for 1 sulung. Now Ansfrid holds it from the Bishop of Bayeux. It is assessed at \'a34. The monks of St Augustine claim back this manor through the charter and seal of King Edward': the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
(Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition', pp.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 4-5). The claim is entered below at 7,30. Godric }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Wisce}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  was undoubtedly
 the 1066 landholder, now dead, whose son provided evidence for the Domesday Enquiry; see Galbraith, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Making of Domesday }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Book, pp. 153-55 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,150\tab ANSFRID [!2! MALE THE CLERIC !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 He is Ansfrid Male the cleric: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101. On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,151\tab ANSFRID [!2! MALE THE CLERIC !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 He is Ansfrid Male the cleric: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101. On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,152\tab OSBERN [!2! PAISFORIERE !2!]. He is }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Osbertus}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  Paisforiere in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101) (PM). [There was sometimes scribal confusion between the forms }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Osbernus}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  and }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Osbertus}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 . The form }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Osb}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 er}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 t}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 us}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ] occurs in Domesday in 5,171;213-214, referring to the same indi
vidual. See also 5,200 Osbern note.]}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,153\tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,154\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,156\tab NORTH EASTLING. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 102) credits this land to Herfrid; see also 5,183 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,159\tab 30 VILLAGERS. The manuscript would seem to have been amended from }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 xxx }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 to }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 xxix }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
in heavy black ink. Farley retained what appeared to have been the original entry. Whether the alteration was a contemporary one is not apparent from close examination of the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab SIRED [* OF CHILHAM *]. See 5,124 Sired note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,160\tab SIRED [* OF CHILHAM *]. See 5,124 Sired note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,162\tab ANSFRID [!2! MALE THE CLERIC !2!]. }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 He is Ansfrid Male the cleric: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101. On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,163\tab IN [WYE] HUNDRED. The manuscript is damaged at this point. The following places were all in Wye Hundred (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,164\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See D8 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,165\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See D8 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,166\tab 
[* IN FELBOROUGH HUNDRED *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM) [In the previous edition of }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Explorer}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  the hundred appears wrongly as Wye.]}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,167\tab [* IN CALE
HILL HUNDRED *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab AETHELWOLD [* THE CHAMBERLAIN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab AETHELWOLD [* THE CHAMBERLAIN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab WAUA. Probably from an Old English }{\i\insrsid15601001 
Wafa}{\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 which may be associated with Old English }{\i\insrsid15601001 wafian }{\insrsid15601001 ('to wave'); see von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{
\insrsid15601001 , p. 409. Farley misreads as }{\i\insrsid15601001 Wana}{\insrsid15601001  (PM).}{\i\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,168\tab ESBIORN BIG. See 5,42 Esbiorn note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,169\tab POSTLING.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 Entered here under Calehill Hundred in Wye Lathe, probably in error. It}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 appears correctly under Heane Hundred in 'Limen' Lathe at 9,16 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab ESBIORN BIG. See 5,42 Esbiorn note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,171\tab OSBERT [!2! PAISFORIERE !2!]. }{\i\insrsid15601001 
Osbertus }{\insrsid15601001 Paisforiere: }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
101. See 5,152 Osbern note.}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab ALDGLOSE. Now in Bircholt Hundred; see Wallenberg, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Kentish Place Names}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 425. Domesday associates it with Brabourne, also}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
in Bircholt Hundred; see 9,42 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,173\tab 12 ACRES. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, p. 101) infers that these, too, were at Palstre [Court] (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,174\tab SIRED [* OF CHILHAM *]. See 5,124 Sired note (JP).
}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,175\tab YOUNG ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. See D17 Alnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,181\tab \'bd YOKE. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 103) places this in Benenden (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab A WIDOW WHO PAYS 22d. Farley has, in error, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 xiii }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 xxii}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
apparently following the abbreviation }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 ci }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 tredecim}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 interlined. The figures in the manuscript are clearly }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 xxii }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,182\tab [* IN 'BLACKBOURNE' HUNDRED *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript. Tinton is entered in}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
'Blackbourne' Hundred at 9,22. The name survives in Warehorne parish in Ham Hundred, parts of which are known to have lain in 'Aloesbridge' and 'Blackbourne' Hundreds; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, pp. 474-75 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,183\tab RINGLETON. The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 102) credits this land to Herfrid; see also 5,156 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,184\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).
}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,185\tab HUGH [!2! OF PORT !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Hugh of Port: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 102 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab EDRIC OF ELHAM. See 5,129 Edric note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,186\tab HUGH [!2! OF PORT !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Hugh of Port: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 102 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab EDRIC [* OF ELHAM *]. See 5,129 Edric note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,187\tab HUGH [!2! OF PORT !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Hugh of Port: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 102 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,189\tab ANSFRID [!2! MALE THE CLERIC !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 He is Ansfrid Male the cleric: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101. On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab "LEUEBERGE".}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Unidentified; compare 5,210 Thurstan note. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , pp. 101-102) has }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Endleueberga}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Endleuaberga}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Wallenberg,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 561, relates the Domesday form to the name of the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 T.R.E. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 tenant }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Leuuinus}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Leofwine}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ),}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 and discounts the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
form as a subsequent rationalization. However, in this section }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 is independent of and antecedent to Domesday, and it shows the name to be Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 endle
ofan beorga }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 or (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 aet}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  endleofan beorgum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ('(at) eleven barrows'). Wallenberg may well be correct in supposing that Domesday }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 in leueberge }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 may represent a development of the Old English place-name to a hypothetical }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 indlefenbeorga }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 which developed to a hypothetical}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  inleveberge}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 whence the metanalysis }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 in leveberge}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
especially likely in a context where the Latin preposition }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 in }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 preceded the name (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,190\tab ANSFRID [!2! MALE THE CLERIC !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 He is Ansfrid Male the cleric: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101. On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,192\tab A MAN-AT-ARMS. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 VCH Kent }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 iii. p. 239 note 188, suggests that this is possibly Herbert son of Ivo, who is recorded as holding land in [Temple] Ewell at 9,35 (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,194\tab "ASCORED". The Domesday form }{\i\insrsid15601001 Ascored}{\insrsid15601001  might represent }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Old English \'c6}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 scr\'e6d}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 :}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\insrsid15601001 von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid15601001 , p. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
165, but as he left it under the heading Ascored, it has been thought safest to keep to the Domesday form in the present edition. The Phillimore print
ed edition has Ashred; the Alecto edition has Ascored. This is the only occurrence of this name in Domesday.}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,196\tab BUCCA.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  The Domesday form }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Boche }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 represents Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Bucca}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 : }{\insrsid15601001 von Feilitzen, }{
\i\insrsid15601001 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid15601001 , p. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 210. The Phillimore printed edition has Buck, a translation of the Old English word }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 bucca}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
. The Alecto edition has Bucca. This is the only occurrence of this name in Domesday Book.}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,197\tab ANSFRID [!2! MALE THE CLERIC !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 He is Ansfrid Male the cleric: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101. On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,198\tab SANDWICH. 'It is in its own lathe and hundred': Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 89. See 2,2 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab 
AETHELWOLD [* THE CHAMBERLAIN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,200\tab OSBERN SON OF LEDHARD.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 The manuscript calls him Osbert but refers in the same entry to}{\insrsid15601001  '}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Osbern himself'.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Domesday refers to Osbern son of Ledhard at 2,38. 5,135-136;200;206-207. 7,19 and to Osbert son of Ledhard at 5,200;205;216, but they are clearly the same man as is made apparent in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
(Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 102). The translation gives Osbern throughout (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,201\tab ANSFRID [!2! MALE THE CLERIC !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 He is Ansfrid Male the cleric: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101. On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,203\tab 1 \'bd YOKES IN THE SAME HUNDRED. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 VCH Kent }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 iii. p. 240 note 195, suggests Buckland in Woodnesborough (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,204\tab NEWINGTON. Entered here, and at 9,37-38, in Bewsbury Hundred in Eastry Lathe. The place was later in Folkestone Hundred in 'Limen' Lathe; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, p. 453 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab EDRIC [* OF ELHAM *]. See 5,129 Edric note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,208\tab 
MIDLEY. Later in St Martin's Hundred in 'Limen' Lathe; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 479 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,209\tab IN SOMERDEN HUNDRED. Taken literally the Domesday hundred of }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Summerdene}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 would include Robert Latimer's anonymous 6 acres and lands in Tickenhurst, Woodnesborough, Each, Marshborough and }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Esmetone }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 in Eastry Lathe. Both Each (5,216) and Woodnesborough (5,197) 
are also entered by Domesday under Eastry Hundred, and all these places, with the exception of Robert Latimer's anonymous 6 acres, were later in that hundred; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, pp. 574-88. Most authorities have therefore assumed that this entry refers to the hundred of Somerden in the Half-Lathe of Sutton. Witney, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Jutish }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Forest, p. 120, locates the 6 acres in Cowden (TQ465404). That Robert held from Richard son of Count Gilbert might also be taken as circumstantial evidence that this holding lay in south-west Kent. The Domesday clerk, unfamiliar with this recent subinfeud
ation, was therefore unsure which hundred the following five places were in and did not enter the next rubric until 5,215. Alternatively, it is possible that these places did lie in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Summerdene}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 Hundred in Eastry Lathe, although the hundred was later absorbed into Eastry Hundred. The parish of Woodnesborough contains the place-names Denne Court and Summer Field; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, pp. 587, 590 (PM). In the Phillimore printed edition }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Summerdene}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  was 'translated' as Summerdene.}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab \tab It would, however, be a strange coincidence if a }
{\i\insrsid15601001 Summerdene}{\insrsid15601001 
 Hundred made a single appearance in Domesday, only to be swallowed by Eastry Hundred (in which other parts of some of its vills already lay in 1086), while a Somerden Hundred subsequently appeared in the Half-La
the of Sutton (otherwise first evidenced in 1157); see Anderson, }{\i\insrsid15601001 English Hundred Names: South-Eastern Counties}{\insrsid15601001 , p. 109. The most obvious conclusion is that the 6 acres lay in the Weald in Somerden Hundred (}{
\i\insrsid15601001 Summerdene}{\insrsid15601001  means 'summer pig-pasture') which thus 
had a Domesday forebear and that both a lathe and a hundred heading (Eastry Lathe, Eastry Hundred) were omitted from above the next entry (5,210). This was often the case in Domesday Kent. The fact that an Eastry hundred head occurs subsequently at 5,215 
d
oes not invalidate this conclusion, since it corresponds to a change of subtenant. In a fief as large as that of the Bishop of Bayeux, it is likely that individual subtenants made their own returns or that the material was a one stage sub-assembled by sub
tenant and that an Eastry hundred head was present at one of those earlier stages, before being transferred to Domesday.}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,210\tab 
[* IN EASTRY LATHE *] [* IN EASTRY HUNDRED *]. For the reason for these inserted lathe and hundred heads, see 5,209 hundred note.}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab TURSTIN [* TINEL *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Presumably Turstin Tinel whom Domesday records as the holder of}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 "Leueberge"}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
5,196 (compare 5,189 "Leueberge" note). The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
102) associates that holding with those at Tickenhurst, Woodnesborough and Each [5,210-212] (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab EDRIC OF ELHAM. See 5,129 Edric note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,211\tab TURSTIN [* TINEL *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
See 5,210 Turstin note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,212\tab TURSTIN [* TINEL *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 See 5,210 Turstin}{\insrsid15601001  note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab EACH. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 See 5,209 hundred note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,213\tab OSBERT [!2! PAISFORIERE !2!]. }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 See 5,152 Osbern note.}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 5,214\tab OSBERT [!2! PAISFORIERE !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
See 5,152 Osbern note.}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab ELMTON. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday has }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Esmetone}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , while the}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 101) has }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Emmetune}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 This place was identified by Hasted, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 History of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , iv. p. 195, followed by Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , pp. 582-83, and }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, as Elmton in Eythorne. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 VCH Kent }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 iii. p. 241, and the editor of the}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 retained the eleventh-century form. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Esmetone 
}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 could represent a miscopied minuscule script }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Elmetone}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , that is,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 elmen-tune }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
('village at the elms'); and }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Emmetune }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 could be}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 a poor translation of a miswritten form }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 elmne-tune}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Elmton is therefore a credible suggestion (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab SIRED [* OF CHILHAM *]. See 5,124 Sired note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,215\tab WULFWARD [* WHITE *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,217\tab EASOLE. See 5,134 Easole note (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 5,218\tab OSBERN [!2! SON OF LEDHARD !2!]. He is}{\i\insrsid15601001  Osbertus}{\insrsid15601001  s}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 on of Ledhard in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (Douglas, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 102) (PM). [See 5,152 Osbern note.]}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,220\tab DENTON. Entered here in Eastry Hundred, but later in Kinghamford Hundred; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 556 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,221\tab [* IN BEWSBURY HUNDRED *]. The hundred rubric is not entered in the manuscript until 5,222 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,222\tab 40 ACRES. 'And near there [Boswell Banks] in a manor, 40 acres': Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 101 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 5,223\tab [* IN 'LIMEN' LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab [* IN 'LONINGBOROUGH' HUNDRED *]. The rubric is not entered in the manuscript until 5,224 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 6,1\tab [* IN WYE LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab [* IN WYE HUNDRED *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 7,1\tab PLUMSTEAD. '}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Sorag}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001  held it before 1066': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 1). The unintelligible personal name}{\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 of this }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 T.R.E. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 holder appears in a thirteenth-century manuscript copy of a 1087 text, so there is a possibility of scribal error. The origin may have been an Old English byname, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Strang}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , 'the strong', (not given in }{\insrsid15601001 Tengvik, }{\i\insrsid15601001 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ), or a variant form of the Anglo-Norman byname }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Sorz}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001  ('the deaf'); see von Feilitzen, \lquote Personal Names of the Winton Domesday', p. 216 (PM)}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab IT PAYS \'a314 8s 3d. 'It pays \'a314': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 1) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 7,2\tab LENHAM. 'It is for the monks' food': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition', p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 2) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 1 YOKE OF THIS MANOR, VALUE 5s. 'St Augustine has \'bd yoke in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Bromfeld }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 which}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 lies in this manor. It is assessed at 5s': }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 2). Despite the discrepancy in the number}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
of yokes this would appear to be the same holding (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 7,4\tab LANGPORT. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 'It lies in the Hundred of Canterbury': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
p. 11) (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab 1 YOKE WHICH BELONGS. 'Value 4s': }{\i\insrsid15601001 
Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition', p. 11 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 70 BURGESSES. '... who paid \'a34 10s in
 tribute. The villagers and smallholders who}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 dwell outside the city pay \'a38 10s 8d in tribute and one sester of honey. 4 mills which}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 pay 29s 4d': }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 11) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab VALUE NOW \'a335 4s. 'It is assessed at \'a335': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 11 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 7,6\tab EDRIC [* OF ELHAM *]. See 5,129 Edric note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab ESBIORN BIG. See 5,42 Esbiorn note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab RALPH [!3! OF SAINT-WANDRILLE !3!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Ralph of Saint-Wandrille: }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition', p. 16) (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 7,7\tab IT PAYS \'a354. 'It is assessed at \'a356': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 17) (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 7,9\tab IN CHISLET HUNDRED. 'In Bleangate Hundred': }{\i\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 p. 17). See \{
Introduction: Administrative Divisions\} (PM). [This name may be an interpolation by the thirteenth-century copyist of the }{\i\insrsid15601001 Excerpta}{\insrsid15601001 
, or the hundred may have been in existence in 1086, but separate returns were made for its three manors Sturry, Chislet and Reculver which Domesday regards as hundred
s in their own right. If this is so, it would have been a temporary expedient as with similar manorial hundreds in Somerset; see SOM \{Introduction: Hundreds\}; Anderson, }{\i\insrsid15601001 English Hundred Names: South-Eastern Counties}{
\insrsid15601001 , p. 149.}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 12 SULUNGS. '6 are in Margate': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 17) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 7,10\tab WITH KING WILLIAM'S ASSENT. For Odo's grant and King William's confirmation dated 1077, see }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , i. nos. 99-100 p. 26 [= Bates, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , nos. 83-85 pp. 348-51] (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 24 ACRES. '33 acres': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 17) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab SERVICE. 'At sea': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 18); the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }
{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 82) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 7,11\tab NOW \'a34. 'It is assessed at \'a34 2s and one sester of flour': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
p. 11) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 7,12\tab WILDERTON.}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  'It is for the monks' food': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 4) (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 7,13\tab ANSKETIL [!2! OF ROTS !2!]. He is Ansketil the m}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 arshal in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 5) and Ansketil of Rots in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 101) (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 7,14\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}
{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab HOLDS \'bd SULUNG FROM THE ABBOT. 'For a tribute': }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 5) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 7,15\tab ANSWERS FOR 6 SULUNGS. 'It answered for 7 sulungs': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 6) (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 7,16\tab ROOTING. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 'Now a villager holds from the abbot. It is assessed at 40s': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 6) (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 7,17\tab 1 YOKE [IN] RIPTON. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 5) and the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 100) give it as 1 sulung (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab FURTHER, HE HAS 2 YOKES. 'Further, the abbot gave him 3 villagers with 2 yokes.}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 It is assessed at \'a34 5s': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
(Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 pp. 5-6) (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 7,18\tab ANSFRID [!2! MALE THE CLERIC !2!]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 He is Ansfrid Male the cleric: Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 101. On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 7,19\tab WOODLAND, 10 PIGS. The isolated }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 T.I }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 which follows }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 silua .x. porc' }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 is}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 probably the start of }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 T}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 R}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 E. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 which begins the next line; see 9,49 pasturage note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab OIDELARD [!3! THE STEWARD !3!]. Oidelard the s}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 teward: }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 22) (PM).}{\insrsid15601001 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab \tab 
The name Oidelard occurs thirteen times in Domesday Book, probably representing two individuals, one a tenant of Eustace the sheriff, the other holding land from Ralph of Mortimer in six counties. This Oidelard may be the same man: Keats-Rohan, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday People}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 312, suggests he was Ralph's steward (JP).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab VALUE \'a34. '100s': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 21) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 \tab 2 SULUNGS LESS \'bd YOKE. '2 sulungs less 25 acres': }{\i\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 p.}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{
\insrsid15601001 21). On this evidence the Kentish yoke contained 50 acres, the sulung 200 acres; see P16 sulungs note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See D8 Wadard note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 7,20\tab WADARD <OF COGGES> }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
HOLDS LAND THERE. 'Wadard held all the villagers' land': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 22) (PM).}{\insrsid15601001 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab \tab }{\insrsid15601001 See also D8 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 7,21\tab SIBERTSWOLD. 'It is for the monks' clothing': }{\i\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 p. 23) (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 7,23\tab PRESTON. 'It belongs to the monks' chamber': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 19) (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab VITALIS HOLDS 1 SULUNG AND \'bd YOKE. 'As a Holding': }
{\i\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 p. 19) (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 7,24\tab ANSFRID [!3! MALE THE CLERIC !3!].}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001  He is Ansfrid Male [}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 masculus}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ] the cleric: }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 19). On the name, see 5,131 Ansfrid note (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab IT ANSWERS FOR \'bd SULUNG AND \'bd YOKE. 'Before 1066 it answered for \'bd sulung, 1 yoke and 20 acres': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 19) (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 7,25\tab 3 VIRGATES. Probably in error for 3 yokes as in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 19), although the 
}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 100)}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
repeats 3 virgates (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab VALUE NOW 20s. 'Value 9s}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }
{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 19) (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 7,27\tab "LANPORT". The}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 100) renders as }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Langeport }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
which David Douglas suggested might be Old Langport in Lydd, although the reference to Stowting Hundred would therefore be an error. In what is apparently the same entry the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
(Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 30) places this holding at Elmsted and Monk's Horton (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 7,29\tab BURMARSH. 'In the Hundred of 'Blackbourne': }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 30) (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 8,1\tab [* IN THE HALF-LATHE OF SUTTON *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 9,1\tab [* IN WYE LATHE *].The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 9,9\tab ATTERTON. Domesday enters Atterton with the rest of Hugh de Montfort's holding in}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Newchurch Hundred in 'Limen' Lathe but records the claim of the canons of St Martin's of Dover supported by the men of Eastry Lathe. The place was later in Bewsbury Hundred in Eastry Lathe: Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 563 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 9,10\tab OF A NINTH SALT-HOUSE. Farley printed }{\i\insrsid15601001 nouae salinae}{\insrsid15601001  ('new salt-house'), but it is clearly }{\i\f703\insrsid15601001 non\'ea salin\'ea}{\insrsid15601001 
 ('ninth salt-house') in the manuscript and the reading is clear in both the Ordnance Survey and Alecto facsimiles. The Phillimore printed translation has 'ninth', but the note by PM reads: 'The manuscript has }{\i\insrsid15601001 nove saline}{
\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 corrected by Farley to }{\i\insrsid15601001 novae salina}{\insrsid15601001 '.}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 9,12\tab BLACKMANSTONE. Named after the pre-1066 holder, Blaecmann; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 461 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 9,16\tab ESBIORN BIG. See 5,42 Esbiorn note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 9,18\tab "BELICE".}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 The name would appear to be identical in origin to that of Belce Wood, in Sturry}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 parish (see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, p. 514), although the hundred heading is an obstacle to its identification as}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 that place (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 9,19\tab A LAND. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 103) places this at "Belice" (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 9,24\tab OSWARD [* OF NORTON *]. See 1,1 Osward note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 9,27\tab [* IN STREET HUNDRED *]. So Douglas, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 104. (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 9,34\tab 
[* IN WYE LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 9,35\tab 
[* IN EASTRY LATHE *]. Not entered in the manuscript until 9,36. The entry was perhaps added at the foot of column 13c (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab [* IN BEWSBURY HUNDRED *]. Not entered in the manuscript until 9,36. The entry was perhaps added at the foot of column 13c (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab EDRIC OF ELHAM. See 5,129 Edric note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 9,37\tab EDRIC [* OF ELHAM *]. See 5,129 Edric note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 9,41\tab 
POULTON. Later in Folkestone Hundred; see Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 454. The place lies close to the hundred boundary (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 9,44\tab [* IN 'LIMEN' LATHE *]. Not entered in the manuscript until 9,45 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab NORTHMANN <OF MEREWORTH>. See D17 Northman note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 9,46\tab NORTHMANN <OF MEREWORTH>. See D17 Northman note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab IT ANSWERS FOR AS MUCH. Farley omits }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 7}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 et}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 between }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 de rege. E. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 and}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
 p' tanto }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 9,47\tab "AIA".}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 This is}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Aie }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 104). }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 VCH Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , iii. p. 250, suggests Hythe. Domesday places it in 'Limen' Lathe in}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Street Hundred, adjacent to Hythe. But }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Aia}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Aie }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 probably represent a name other than }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hythe}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 identical with that represented by those spellings recorded by Wallenberg (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , pp. 459-60) under the name }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hythe}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001  which are formally unlikely for }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hythe}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 viz.: }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hee }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (1199), }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hei }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 (1206), }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hea }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (1206), }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Heia }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (1224), }{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hei\'e2}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid15601001  Hey\'e2 }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 (1225). This other place-name was probably hypothetical Old English (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 aet}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Haege}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
hypothetical Middle English}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Haye }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 from Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 haeg }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ('hedged enclosure'). The spellings }{\i\f710\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hei\'e2}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{
\i\f710\cf1\insrsid15601001  Hey\'e2 }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 are ambiguous; but read as }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Heian}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Heyan}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
they would suggest comparison with the name Heane (a hundred meeting-place) in Saltwood parish (Wallenberg,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 457), derived from the cognate Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 haegen 
}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ('an enclosure'). However, the hundred affiliation is an obstacle (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 9,48\tab 
NORTHMANN <OF MEREWORTH>. See D17 Northman note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 9,49\tab FROM PASTURAGE. After }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
de pasnagio}{\cf1\insrsid15601001  the manuscript. has }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 T.R. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Probably for }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 T.R.E. }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 which begins the next line. See 7,19 pigs note (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 9,50\tab 
HAROLD <OF FANSCOMBE>. The 1086 tenant who held these two modest holdings (9,50-51) had no tenurial associations with any of his namesakes, none of them close by. These anonymous holdi
ngs, said to be held by the same individual, are likely to have been his only properties (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 9,51\tab HAROLD <OF FANSCOMBE>. See 9,50 Harold note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 9,53\tab [* IN WYE }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 9,54\tab "}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 SUESTONE".}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Hasted, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 History of Kent}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , iii. p. 388, followed by }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 VCH Kent}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 iii. p. 250 note 257, and }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , identified this as Swetton in}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
Cheriton in Folkestone Hundred. The Domesday reference to the same hundred, that is}{\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 Longbridge Hundred, would seem to militate against this suggestion, and the Domesday form}{\insrsid15601001  }{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 is retained here. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , p. 103) gives }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Westtune}{
\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 which may well represent the correct form (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 10,1\tab IN WESTERHAM HUNDRED. The manuscript has }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 IN OSIREHA' HUND' }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 corrected by Farley }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 IN OSTREHA' HUND' }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 

\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 11,1\tab [* IN AYLESFORD LATHE *]. The rubric is omitted in the manuscript (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab 
ALDRED [* ALRED OF YALDING *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 11,2\tab ALRED [* OF YALDING *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 12,1\tab A MANOR. Haimo the sheriff is recorded as holding 2 \'bd}{\i\insrsid15601001  }{\insrsid15601001 sulungs at Trimworth in the }{\i\insrsid15601001 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 
The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 ,}{\insrsid15601001  p. 103), probably the manor referred to here; see Wallenberg,}{\i\insrsid15601001  Place-Names of Kent}{\insrsid15601001 , p. 383; Hoyt, 'Pre-Domesday Kentish Assessment Lis
t', p. 194 (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 12,3\tab NORTHMANN <OF MEREWORTH>. See D17 Northman note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 12,4\tab NORTHMANN <OF MEREWORTH>. See D17 Northman note (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 13,1\tab [* SIGAR *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab 2 IN ROCHESTER WHICH PAID 64d. The }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition', p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 4) gives 'which pay 2s to this manor' (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab \'a310 10s BELONG IN NEWINGTON. The }{
\i\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition', p. 3)}{\insrsid15601001  gives '\'a311.10s' (PM).}{\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab ARCHBISHOP ^[OF CANTERBURY]^ }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 HAS 
\'a36 FROM IT. From the customs of the church, see }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 , i. no. 176 p. 84 [= Bates, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid15601001 
, no. 73 pp. 330-31] (PM).}{\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 \tab BISHOP OF BAYEUX ... VALUE 40s. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001 Excerpta }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 (Ballard, 'An Eleventh-Century Inquisition',}{\i\cf1\insrsid15601001  }{\cf1\insrsid15601001 p. 4) gives '60s' (PM).}{
\cf1\insrsid5247740 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid5247740 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15601001 \tab ADAM SON OF HUBERT. See 5,40 Adam note (JP).}{
\insrsid5247740 
\par }{\insrsid15601001 
\par }}