{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}{\f37\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f703\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f704\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f706\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f707\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f708\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f709\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f710\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f711\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f743\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Helvetica CE;}
{\f744\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Helvetica Cyr;}{\f746\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Helvetica Greek;}{\f747\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Helvetica Tur;}{\f748\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Helvetica (Hebrew);}{\f749\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Helvetica (Arabic);}
{\f750\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Helvetica Baltic;}{\f751\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Helvetica (Vietnamese);}{\f1073\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1074\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f1076\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1077\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1078\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f1079\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1080\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1081\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa120\keepn\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f4\fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Heading;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\sl-252\slmult0\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 
Body Text;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\sl-252\slmult0\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f37\fs24\cf1\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon16 \snext17 List;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\f37\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 \ssemihidden caption;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f37\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Index;}{
\s20\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Plain Text;}{\s21\ql \fi-1134\li1134\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1134\tx1418\tx9781\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1134\itap0 
\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext21 dday;}{\*\cs22 \additive \f3 RTF_Num 2 1;}{\*\cs23 \additive RTF_Num 2 2;}{\*\cs24 \additive RTF_Num 2 3;}{\*\cs25 \additive RTF_Num 2 4;}{\*\cs26 \additive RTF_Num 2 5;}{\*\cs27 
\additive RTF_Num 2 6;}{\*\cs28 \additive RTF_Num 2 7;}{\*\cs29 \additive RTF_Num 2 8;}{\*\cs30 \additive RTF_Num 2 9;}{\*\cs31 \additive RTF_Num 3 1;}{\*\cs32 \additive RTF_Num 3 2;}{\*\cs33 \additive RTF_Num 3 3;}{\*\cs34 \additive RTF_Num 3 4;}{\*
\cs35 \additive RTF_Num 3 5;}{\*\cs36 \additive RTF_Num 3 6;}{\*\cs37 \additive RTF_Num 3 7;}{\*\cs38 \additive RTF_Num 3 8;}{\*\cs39 \additive RTF_Num 3 9;}}{\*\pgptbl {\pgp\ipgp0\itap0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid414511\rsid6037987\rsid13196849
\rsid16388159}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info{\author matt}{\operator John Palmer}{\creatim\yr2007\mo7\dy21\hr20\min52}{\revtim\yr2007\mo7\dy31\hr13\min3}{\printim\yr2113\mo1\dy1}{\version4}{\edmins4}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords2209}
{\nofchars12593}{\*\company  University of Hull}{\nofcharsws14773}{\vern16389}}\deftab1080\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\makebackup\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984
\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot414511 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s21\qc \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid414511 NOTES
\par }{\insrsid414511 (version 1a)}{\insrsid16388159 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 MIDDLESEX. }{\i\insrsid414511 Midelsexe}{\insrsid414511 
, in red, across the top of the page, spread above both columns, on}{\i\insrsid414511  }{\insrsid414511 folios 127ab-130cd; omitted 126 d and blank pages (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par 
\par }{\insrsid414511 BLANK COLUMNS. All or most of these five columns, and the top three quarters of folio 126d, were probably reserved for the Survey of London, which was never transcribed (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid13196849 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 {\insrsid414511 1,1\tab 
'OSSULSTONE' HUNDRED. The stone stood in what is now Park Lane in 1484; on its east side, near its junction with South Street, in 1614 (}{\i\insrsid414511 Place-Names of Middlesex}{\insrsid414511 , p. 81); probably identical with the stone (
? ) 'where soldiers are shot' at Tyburn (now Marble Arch), marked on Rocque's, }{\i\insrsid414511 Map of London, }{\insrsid414511 
1746 (Sheet A 2); replaced beside the Marble Arch between the 1870s and the 1890s, but subsequently removed. It was evidently of considerable size. 'Oswulf's Ston
e', presumably named after an early English settler, was probably the meeting place of the hundred; it may have been of Roman origin (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 2,1\tab HAYES. The }{\i\insrsid414511 Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid414511  (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid414511 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid414511 , p. 99)}{\i\insrsid414511  }{\insrsid414511 
enters Hayes with Mortlake in Surrey (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab 26 PLOUGHS BETWEEN THE FRENCHMEN AND THE VILLAGERS. }{\i\insrsid414511 Franc'}{\insrsid414511 . Not here }{\i\insrsid414511 franc}{\insrsid414511 
i ('free'). The phrase recurs in 2,2. 3,12. 5,1. 10,1. 11,1-2. 12,1. In each of these 8 entries either }{\i\insrsid414511 Francig}{\insrsid414511 [}{\i\insrsid414511 enae}{\insrsid414511 ]}{\i\insrsid414511  }{\insrsid414511 ('Frenchmen') or }{
\i\insrsid414511 milites }{\insrsid414511 ('men-at-arms') are listed, and in 12,1 the Frenchman is identified as a man-at-arms. Frenchmen also occur, without this preliminary heading, in 4,8 and 7,6 (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab MEADOW FOR 1 PLOUGH. Meaning sufficient meadow for the 8 oxen who drew the plough (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab WOODLAND, 400 PIGS, AND 3s TOO. The
 Latin may mean either sufficient woodland to pasture 400 etc. pigs, or woodland on which 400 etc. pigs are paid for right of pasture. In Middlesex, the 'third pig' was paid at Chalkhill in Kingsbury about 1045 (Harmer, }{\i\insrsid414511 Anglo-Saxon }{
\insrsid414511 Writs, no. 77 p. 344 = Kemble, }{\i\insrsid414511 Codex Diplomaticus}{\insrsid414511 , no. 843), and the high payment of one pig in three for pasturage may have been in force elsewhere in the county (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 2,2\tab HARROW. There is an entry for this estate in the }{\i\insrsid414511 Domesday Monachorum }{\cf1\insrsid414511 (Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid414511 The Domesday Monachorum}{\cf1\insrsid414511 , p. 99)}{\insrsid414511 : }{
\i\insrsid414511 Herges de firma liiii lib. Et xx solidos archiepiscopo et xxx porcos}{\insrsid414511 .}{\i\insrsid414511  Gablum lx & vii solidos}{\insrsid414511 . The }{\i\insrsid414511 firma is }{\insrsid414511 slightly less}{\dn6\insrsid414511  }{
\insrsid414511 than the Domesday }{\i\insrsid414511 valet}{\insrsid414511  (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 \tab EARL LEOFWIN. See 11,2 Leofwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 2,3\tab EARL LEOFWIN. See 11,2 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 3,2\tab HE COULD GRANT \'85
 BEFORE 1066. This probably refers grammatically to Sired, see 3,4-6; but in practice also refers to the canons and Doding (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 3,7\tab BISHOP OF LISIEUX. Gilbert Maminot, the king's doctor and chaplain (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 3,15\tab IN 'OSSULSTONE' HUNDRED. Th
e hundred heading is repeated after the long account of the bishop's manor of Fulham, itself in 'Ossulstone' (3,1), because it begins a separate list of the canons' holdings, whose equivalent in some counties is entered as a separate chapter of the Survey
 (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 3,18\tab AS ONE MANOR. Latin }{\i\insrsid414511 p}{\insrsid414511 [}
{\i\insrsid414511 ro}{\insrsid414511 ] }{\i\insrsid414511 i M}{\insrsid414511 [}{\i\insrsid414511 anerio}{\insrsid414511 ] }{\i\insrsid414511 de v hid}{\insrsid414511 [}{\i\insrsid414511 is}{\insrsid414511 ]}{\i\insrsid414511  }{\insrsid414511 
('as one manor of 5 hides') was written first; }{\i\insrsid414511 pro}{\insrsid414511  (above the line) and }{\i\insrsid414511 se def}{\insrsid414511 [}{\i\insrsid414511 en}{\insrsid414511 ]}{\i\insrsid414511 d}{\insrsid414511 [}{\i\insrsid414511 it}{
\insrsid414511 ] (at the end of the line, protruding into the margin) were added later, meaning 'it answers for 5 hides'. The down-stroke of the }{\i\insrsid414511 p}{\insrsid414511 
, shown as a separate line by Farley, is carried well below the line in the manuscript, to indicate deletion (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab ANSWERS. Latin }{\i\insrsid414511 se defendit. }{\insrsid414511 Grammatically, either 'answers' or 'answered' (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 3,19\tab 'RUG MOOR'. It lay in the extreme north-west corner of the parish where it adjoins Marylebone, just east of London zoo, at approximately TQ287835, in or about the district that was renamed Camden Town in 1795; see Baring, }{
\i\insrsid414511 Tables}{\insrsid414511 , p. 82; }{\i\insrsid414511 Place-Names of Middlesex}{\insrsid414511 , pp. 141-42; }{\i\insrsid414511 VCH Middlesex}{\insrsid414511 , i. p. 121 note 24.}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 3,30\tab [IN 'ELTHORNE' HUNDRED]. As the text stands, }{\i\insrsid414511 Draitone}{\insrsid414511  lay in 'Ossulstone' Hundred and is therefore Drayton in Ealing (TQ1680); see }{\i\insrsid414511 Place-Names of Middlesex}{\insrsid414511 
, p. 91. St Paul's held a 'Drayton' from at least the tenth century, but
 later in the Middle Ages its holding was distinguished as West Drayton. It is theoretically possible that the 1066 holding meant is Drayton in Ealing, but more probable that a hundred heading has been omitted from the text, and that West Drayton was inte
nded (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 4,5\tab STAINES. Domesday Buckinghamshire records under East Burnham (BUK 7,2), held by Westminster Abbey, that 3 thanes paid 5 "ora" a year as a customary due to the }{\i\insrsid414511 monasterium}{\insrsid414511  of Staines (JRM).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab \tab This suggests that there was a (minster) church here.}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab 3 COTTAGERS. A second }{\i\insrsid414511 7}{\insrsid414511  ('and') is written over the first }{\i\insrsid414511 i}{\insrsid414511  of }{\i\insrsid414511 iii}{\insrsid414511 ; a space equivalent to 3 or 4 letters is left between }{
\i\insrsid414511 cot'}{\insrsid414511  and }{\i\insrsid414511 de }{\insrsid414511 ('cottagers with') (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab 46 BURGESSES. King Edward granted to Westminster }{\i\insrsid414511 Stana mid tham lande Staeningahaga withinnon Lundone }{\insrsid414511 ('Staines with the land }{\i\insrsid414511 Staeningahaga}{\insrsid414511 
 within London'): Kemble, }{\i\insrsid414511 Codex Diplomaticus}{\insrsid414511 , no. 855 = Harmer, }{\i\insrsid414511 Anglo-Saxon Writs}{\insrsid414511 , p. 98. The Staines burgesses probably lived in and about Staining Lane, London EC2 (JRM).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 6,1\tab MARYLEBONE. Domesday }{\i\insrsid414511 Tiburne}{\insrsid414511 , medieval 'Tyburn', included much of Marylebone. (JRM). The first element has been replaced by the dedication of the church to St Mary; }{\i\insrsid414511 
Place-Names of Middlesex}{\insrsid414511 , p. 137; }{\i\insrsid414511 VCH Middlesex}{\insrsid414511 , i. p. 124 note 35.}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 7,2\tab 
ULF [* SON OF MANNI SWART *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 7,3\tab WIGOT [* OF WALLINGFORD *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 7,4\tab ALFRED [* NEPHEW OF WIGOT *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab WIGOT [* OF WALLINGFORD *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 7,5\tab COLHAM. At or near Colham Green, Hillingdon (JRM)}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 \tab WIGOT [* OF WALLINGFORD *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 7,6\tab ULF [* SON OF MANNI SWART *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 7,7\tab GODWIN [SON OF?] AELFGYTH. Domesday }{\i\insrsid414511 Alfit
}{\insrsid414511 ; see Tengvik, }{\i\insrsid414511 Old English Bynames}{\insrsid414511 , p. 231 (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 \tab WIGOT [* OF WALLINGFORD *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 7,8\tab WULFWARD [* WHITE *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab [* ULF *] SON OF MANNI [* SWART *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 8,3\tab GOTI <OF STAMBOURNE>. Goti is named in Domesday Book as a th
ane or guard of Earl Harold holding substantial properties in Essex, Hertfordshire and Middlesex. In Suffolk, the thane of Earl Harold who held the valuable manor of Freckenham (SUF 20,1) has been identified as the same man, though erroneously named }{
\i\insrsid414511 Orthi}{\insrsid414511  by the scribe: Fleming, }{\i\insrsid414511 Kings and Lords}{\insrsid414511 
, p. 86, note 139. Of the remaining holdings, the valuable manor of Hutton (ESS 13,1) lay in the same Hundred as one of Gotis holdings acquired by Haimo the steward; and another valuable manor, Nettlestead (SUF 3,56),
 had like Freckenham passed through the hands of Earl Ralph Wader. In view of these links and the rarity of the name Goti, it is likely both manors had belonged to Earl Harold's thane also. The two remaining holdings held by men named Goti in East Anglia,
 however, were low status properties unlikely to have been his. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid414511 English Nobility}{\insrsid414511 , pp. 308-309, whose list omits Nettlestead (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 8,4\tab 
8 PLOUGHS. The figures do not agree; it may be that '9 ploughs' were accidentally subtracted from '12 hides' instead of '10 ploughs'; see also 12,1 and 21,1 (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 8,6\tab EDMER ATOR. Ator is the commoner spelling of the name. The meaning is perhaps 'venomous', or 'dreadful'; see Tengvik, }{\i\insrsid414511 Old English Bynames}{\insrsid414511 , p. 341; von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid414511 
Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid414511 , pp. 232-33 (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 9,1\tab 'EBURY'. At or near Ebury Square, Victoria, London SW1 (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab \tab This is Domesday }{\i\insrsid414511 Eia}{\insrsid414511  ('the island') with the later addition of manorial 'bury'. The name is preserved only in Ebury Bridge, Ebury Square and Ebury Street, its area now forming Pimlico; see }{
\i\insrsid414511 Place-Names of Middlesex}{\insrsid414511 , pp. 167-68; Baring, }{\i\insrsid414511 Tables}{\insrsid414511 , p. 81; }{\i\insrsid414511 Domesday Geography of South-East England}{\insrsid414511 , p. 101.}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 9,2\tab RALPH [* OF QUESNAY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 9,3\tab WULFBERT <OF ISLINGTON>. Domesday }{\i\insrsid414511 Gulb}{
\insrsid414511 [}{\i\insrsid414511 er}{\insrsid414511 ]}{\i\insrsid414511 t}{\insrsid414511 [}{\i\insrsid414511 us}{\insrsid414511 ]; see von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid414511 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday }{\insrsid414511 Book, p. 418 (JRM).
\par \tab \tab Wulfbert is an uncommon name, occurring on fewer than twenty holdings in Domesday Book, none of them close enough, or with tenurial associations or other links, to be plausibly connected with this modest holding at Islington (JP).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 9,4\tab ARNULF [* OF HESDIN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 9,6\tab 
HELD. A misprint in many copies of Farley omits the first letter of }{\i\insrsid414511 tenuerunt}{\insrsid414511  (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 \tab EARL LEOFWIN. See 11,2 Leofwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 9,9\tab LORDS'. }{\i\insrsid414511 Dominorum, }{\insrsid414511 
plural (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 11,1\tab 
AZUR [* SON OF TOTI *]. The lands of the royal thane, Azur son of Toti, and his men were distributed among no fewer than nine tenants-in-chief; but he is named at least once in relation to seven of them which allows his other 
holdings acquired by them to be identified. The bulk of his estates, many of them substantial, lay in Buckinghamshire, though the most valuable manor was at Stanwell (11,1). Their substance and his status make it likely that a single individual is involve
d. Among the lesser holdings, his men whose holdings devolved upon the Count of Mortain (BUK 12,25-26) had no other lord named Azur in the county, or indeed the circuit, to choose from. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid414511 English Nobility}{\insrsid414511 
, pp. 253-54 (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 11,2\tab AZUR [* SON OF TOTI *]. See 11,1 Azur note (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab [* EARL *] LEOFWIN. The name Leofwin is so common that it is an almost hopeless task to identify the earl of that name if the scribe has omitted his title. Even in the Sussex heartland of the Godwinson family where Leofw
ins are suspiciously thick on the ground, there are few cases where a reasonably secure identification can be suggested. It is likely, for instance, that most if not all of the substantial manors held by a Leofwin in the county (11,21;68. 12,40. 13,20;38;
4
3) had belonged to the earl; but which of them is guesswork. Only in the case of Worthing and Sompting (13,35-40), where the interdependence of holdings and the coincidence of the names of Earl Godwin, Leofwin and Tosti suggest a family holding, has an id
e
ntification been accepted as reasonably secure. Outside the county, it is probable that the Leofwins at Islington (11,2) and Libury (HRT 5,10) were the earl since no other Leofwin was a lord of men in Middlesex and other men held from the earl in Libury. 
I
t is also likely that it was the earl who held the substantial manor of Rampisham in Dorset (DOR 4,1) since this devolved upon the Bishop of Bayeux who succeeded Earl Leofwin in several other counties. Finally, Count Eustace of Boulogne probably acquired 
his very valuable manors of Stanford and Laver (ESS 20,43;45) from the earl, these being by a very considerable margin the most valuable manors held by a Leofwin in Essex. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid414511 English Nobility}{\insrsid414511 
, pp. 200-203, who omits from his list the substantial manors held by the earl's men in Hemel Hempstead and King's Langley (HRT 15,10-11) (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab AZUR [* SON OF TOTI *]. See 11,1 Azur note (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 11,3\tab AZUR [* SON OF TOTI *]. See 11,1 Azur note (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 11,4\tab 2 VILLAGERS WITH 1 VIRGATE. The manuscript has }{
\i\insrsid414511 ii}{\insrsid414511  }{\i\insrsid414511 virg' de i virg' }{\insrsid414511 written in error for }{\i\insrsid414511 ii}{\insrsid414511  }{\i\insrsid414511 vill' de i virg' }{\insrsid414511 (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 \tab AZUR [* SON OF TOTI *]. See 11,1 Azur note (JP).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 12,1\tab A FURTHER 11 POSSIBLE. The figures do not agree; an }{
\i\insrsid414511 x }{\insrsid414511 ('10') has perhaps been omitted; see 8,4 and 21,1 (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab PROVEN. The exact meaning is uncertain (JRM).
\par \tab \tab Latin }{\i\insrsid414511 probati}{\insrsid414511 
 is possibly to be interpreted from what follows: an unusual number of villagers, including 6 of the lord's, answer to them so the point is made that they are 'tried', 'tested' 'experienced', and it is implied that they are 
honourable men and that the arrangement can stand.}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 12,2\tab HAMPTON. This was probably a member of Hounslow Hundred in 1086, since the total for Isleworth Hundred (Hounslow Hundred's successor) in the }{\i\insrsid414511 Hidagium}{\insrsid414511  (}{\i\insrsid414511 VCH Middlesex}{
\insrsid414511 , i. p. 137) shows that Hampton was then in that hundred. Thus a hundred head has not been omitted (}{\i\insrsid414511 pace}{\insrsid414511  JRM's note in the printed edition). However, Hampton was in Spelthorne Hundred by 1235; see }{
\i\insrsid414511 VCH Middlesex}{\insrsid414511 , i. p. 127 note 64, iii. p. 83}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 13,1\tab WOODLAND. The manuscript has }{\i\insrsid414511 Sillva}{\insrsid414511 , for }{\i\insrsid414511 Silva}{\insrsid414511  (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 14,2\tab NIGEL <OF WIVENHOE>. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 \tab EARL LEOFWIN. The manuscript has }{\i\insrsid414511 Leuuini}{
\insrsid414511 ;}{\i\insrsid414511  }{\insrsid414511 Farley has }{\i\insrsid414511 Leunini }{\insrsid414511 in error (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab \tab See 11,2 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 15\tab LAND OF ROBERT [SON OF] FAFITON. He is described as 'son of Fafiton' in HUN 25,1 (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 15,1\tab A SMALLHOLDER. The }{\i\insrsid414511 b}{\insrsid414511  of }{\i\insrsid414511 bord}{\insrsid414511 [}{\i\insrsid414511 ar}{\insrsid414511 ]}{\i\insrsid414511  }{\insrsid414511 is written over a figure, perhaps }{
\i\insrsid414511 ii}{\insrsid414511  or }{\i\insrsid414511 v}{\insrsid414511 ; 2 smallholders with 75 acres would mean improbably large holdings, and the figure 5 is therefore more credible; but the figure may have been deliberately overwritten, to m
ean the smallholders, their number unstated, if the figure in the return copied was rejected as wrong, while the proper figure was not known (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 15,2\tab BEFORE 1066, 40s. Farley has }{\i\insrsid414511 
sob'il}{\insrsid414511 . The manuscript has been corrected from }{\i\insrsid414511 sol}{\insrsid414511 [}{\i\insrsid414511 idos}{\insrsid414511 ] ('shillings') to }{\i\insrsid414511 simil}{\insrsid414511 [}{\i\insrsid414511 iter}{\insrsid414511 
] ('likewise') (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 17\tab LAND OF ROBERT BLUNT. Latin }{\i\insrsid414511 Blundus }{
\insrsid414511 ('blonde') is the origin of the modern surname. Elsewhere in Domesday Robert is sometimes called }{\i\insrsid414511 Albus}{\insrsid414511  or }{\i\insrsid414511 Blancardus}{\insrsid414511  ('white'), or }{\i\insrsid414511 flavus}{
\insrsid414511  ('yellow' or 'fair') (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 18,1\tab EARL LEOFWIN. See 11,2 Leofwin note (JP).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 20,1\tab WULFWYNN [* OF CRESLOW *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 \tab MAN. }{\i\insrsid414511 Homo}{\insrsid414511 
, here including women (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 21,1\tab 6 POSSIBLE. If six is read, the figures do not agree; perhaps }{\i\insrsid414511 ta }{\insrsid414511 turning }{\i\insrsid414511 sex}{\insrsid414511  }{\i\insrsid414511 to sexta }{\insrsid414511 was omitted; see 8
,4 and 12,1 (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 \tab EDWIN [* SON OF BURGRED *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 22,1\tab 
'TOLLINGTON'. In Islington. Now represented only by Tollington Park (Road) and Tollington Place (London N4) and Tollington Road and Tollington Way (London N7) in Finsbury Park; see }{\i\insrsid414511 Place-Names of Middlesex}{\insrsid414511 , p. 126.}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 \tab EDWIN [* SON OF BURGRED *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\aspalpha\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 23\tab 
DEORMANN OF LONDON. The Deormann holding from the Archbishop of Canterbury at Keston in }{\i\insrsid414511 Domesday Monachorum}{\insrsid414511  is probably the Deormann of London, who is subsequently recorded as a knight of the archbishop: see Douglas, }{
\i\insrsid414511 Domesday Monachorum}{\insrsid414511 , pp. 62-63, 104; and Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid414511 Domesday People}{\insrsid414511 , pp. 177.
\par \tab \tab See also KEN 3,1 sulungs note, ESS B3a Deormann note (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 24,1\tab IN LORDSHIP 2 CARUCATES OF LAND, BESIDES THESE 5 HIDES. As in Huntingdonshire, 'Hurstingstone' Hundred (see HUN B21 ploughs note), where the lordship ploughs are exempt from tax. }{\i\insrsid414511 Carucatae, }{\insrsid414511 
not otherwise used in Middlesex, may be a mistaken expansion of a }{\i\insrsid414511 car' }{\insrsid414511 or }{\i\insrsid414511 c'}{\insrsid414511  in the original return, which, as in Huntingdonshire, may have intended }{\i\insrsid414511 carucae }{
\insrsid414511 ('ploughs') (JRM). A note by JRM in the Bedfordshire volume (BDF 10,1 carucate note) says that the latter half of the present note from }{\i\insrsid414511 carucatae}{\insrsid414511 ,}{\i\insrsid414511  }{\insrsid414511 
onward, should be deleted.}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 25\tab ?25? LAND GIVEN IN ALMS. Comparable chapters in other counties have the headings 'The King's Thanes', 'The King's Servants', and the like (JRM).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 25,1\tab 'LISSON'. At or near Lisson Grove and Lisson Street in the north-west of Marylebone parish, London NW1; see }{\i\insrsid414511 Place-Names of Middlesex}{\insrsid414511 , p. 138 note 1; }{\i\insrsid414511 VCH Middlesex}{
\insrsid414511 , i. p. 129 note 80.}{\b\insrsid16388159 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid16388159 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid414511 \tab 
EDEVA [* WIFE OF EDWARD SON OF SWEIN *]. Edeva is identified as the wife of Edward in ESS 85,1 (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 25,2\tab EARL LEOFWIN. See 11,2 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 25,3\tab AELFEVA [* WIFE OF HWAETMANN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 \tab EARL LEOFWIN. See 11,2 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid16388159 
\par }{\insrsid414511 
\par }}