{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f4\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Helvetica;}{\f36\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Times{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f703\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f704\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f706\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f707\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f708\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f709\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f710\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f711\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f743\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Helvetica CE;}
{\f744\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Helvetica Cyr;}{\f746\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Helvetica Greek;}{\f747\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Helvetica Tur;}{\f748\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Helvetica (Hebrew);}{\f749\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Helvetica (Arabic);}
{\f750\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Helvetica Baltic;}{\f751\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Helvetica (Vietnamese);}{\f1063\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times CE{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1064\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times Cyr{\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f1066\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times Greek{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1067\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times Tur{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1068\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times (Hebrew){\*\falt Times New Roman};}
{\f1069\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times (Arabic){\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1070\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times Baltic{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f1071\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times (Vietnamese){\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa120\keepn\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f4\fs28\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Heading;}{\s16\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx360\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{
\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx360\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon16 \snext17 List;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\f36\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 \ssemihidden caption;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f36\fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Index;}
{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx284\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 Plain Text;}{\s21\ql \fi-1134\li1134\ri0\nowidctlpar
\tx1134\tx1418\tx9781\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1134\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext21 dday;}{\*\cs22 \additive \f3 RTF_Num 2 1;}{\*\cs23 \additive RTF_Num 2 2;}{\*\cs24 \additive RTF_Num 2 3;}{\*\cs25 
\additive RTF_Num 2 4;}{\*\cs26 \additive RTF_Num 2 5;}{\*\cs27 \additive RTF_Num 2 6;}{\*\cs28 \additive RTF_Num 2 7;}{\*\cs29 \additive RTF_Num 2 8;}{\*\cs30 \additive RTF_Num 2 9;}}{\*\pgptbl {\pgp\ipgp0\itap0\li0\ri0\sb0\sa0}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid2847371
\rsid6037987\rsid11107320\rsid15341167}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 10.0.6612;}{\info{\author matt}{\operator John Palmer}{\creatim\yr2007\mo7\dy21\hr20\min54}{\revtim\yr2007\mo7\dy31\hr15\min20}{\printim\yr2113\mo1\dy1}{\version4}{\edmins9}{\nofpages17}
{\nofwords6879}{\nofchars39213}{\*\company  University of Hull}{\nofcharsws46001}{\vern16389}}\deftab1080\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\makebackup\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701
\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot15341167 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s21\qc \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\b\insrsid15341167 NOTES
\par }{\insrsid11107320 (version 1a)
\par }\pard \s21\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 {\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 
OXFORDSHIRE. In red, across the top of the page, spread above both columns: }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 OXENEFORDSCIRE }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 on folio 154ab, abbreviated to }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 OXENEF'SCIRE}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 on all other folios [folios 154cd to 161ab] (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 {\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 B1\tab KING ... EARL. Before 1066 the regional earl commonly received the 'third penny', one third of the borough revenues (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab EARL ALGAR.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  Algar, Earl of Mercia, died 1062, was father of Edwin and Morcar. Oxford was still reckoned as Mercian in 1066 (JRM).}{\insrsid15341167 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab \tab See also 54,1 Algar note }{\insrsid15341167 (JP)}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 .}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 B3\tab 
"ORA". A Scandinavian currency unit, still in use; literally an ounce (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 B4\tab 
HOUSES. With those here omitted, listed elsewhere, the total is about 1,000 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 B5\tab EARL ALGAR. See also 54,1 Algar note (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab 14s LESS 
2d. Until 1971, the English pound contained 20 shillings, each of 12 pence, and the abbreviations \'a3.s.d. preserved the Domesday terms }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 librae}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 solidi}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 denarii}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 B6\tab EARL AUBREY. Of Northumberland. Returned to Normandy as incompetent, and deprived of his holdings in England (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 B7\tab EARL WILLIAM. Of Hereford, King William's closest boyhood friend, killed in 1071. His lands were later forfeited by his son's rebellion in 1075 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 B8\tab TAYNTON. See also 13,1. Granted by King Edward to the Abbey of Saint-Denis of Paris in 1059 (Harmer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Anglo-Saxon Writs}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , p. 538, see also no.}{\cf1\insrsid2847371  }{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 55), endorsed 'I, Baldwin, monk of Saint-Denis ... then Physician to King Edward ... undertook this grant to be had from Saint-Denis for ever (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 donum imperpetuum Sancto Dionysio habendum suscepi}{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 )'.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
On 13 April 1069 King William granted to Saint-Denis both Taynton and Deerhurst (Gloucestershire) 'as King Edward had given it to our faithful Baldwin for his own use, before he granted him the Abbey of St Edmund's, which he now heads' (}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 26 [= Bates, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , no. 254 pp. 767-69] = }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Monasticon Anglicanum}{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 , iv. pp. 665-66). Baldwin was appointed Abbot of Bury St Edmund's in 1065. In his last years King Edward granted Deerhurst to Westminster Abbey (Harmer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Anglo-Saxon}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Writs}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, nos. 99-102, pp. 363-68, 519-521). In 1086 (GLS 19 and GLS 20) Saint-Denis held one third of Deerhurst Hundred, and Westminster held the other two-thirds, including Deerhurst itself; Abbot Baldwin held a couple of half-h
ide holdings from Westminster. Taynton (13,1) belonged to Saint-Denis, but Abbot Baldwin retained its town house in Oxford. See also 1,3 Baldwin note (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 B9\tab EDWARD THE SHERIFF}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 . Of Wiltshire (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab 8 VIRGATES. The borough of Wallingford was also reckoned at 8 virgates (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 B10\tab ALWIN HAS 5 DWELLINGS. Farley, in error, }{
\i\insrsid15341167 .i. mans'}{\insrsid15341167  (JRM). [Farley also put a lightning-type abbreviation sign after }{\i\insrsid15341167 mans}{\insrsid15341167 , not the nunnation sign over the }{\i\insrsid15341167 s}{\insrsid15341167 
 that is in the manuscript.]}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab HARDING [* OF OXFORD *]. The name Harding oc
curs or is implied on some four dozen holdings in Domesday Book, probably representing four or five individuals. The Harding with an urban holding in Oxford is identified in the Eynsham Cartulary: This appears to have been his sole possession. Keats-Rohan
, }{\i\insrsid15341167 Domesday People}{\insrsid15341167 , p. 244 (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab DEORMANN [* BROTHER OF LEOFSTAN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab DEORMANN [* BROTHER OF LEOFSTAN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab DEORWYNN. Domesday }{\i\insrsid15341167 Dereuuen}{
\insrsid15341167  is a woman's name: Old English }{\i\insrsid15341167 Deorwynn}{\insrsid15341167  (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab \tab The Phillimore printed edition has Derwen, but for the present edition it has been decided to use the Old English name, as for all the other Domesday names with the first element }{\i\insrsid15341167 Der\-- }{\insrsid15341167 
(= Old English }{\i\insrsid15341167 Deor-}{\insrsid15341167 : von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid15341167 Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid15341167 
, p. 223). The Alecto edition has Deorwynn. This is the only occurrence of this name in Domesday Book.}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab 
SAEWOLD <OF ROFFORD>. Apart from Abbot Saewold, whose name occurs only in }{\i\insrsid15341167 Exon}{\insrsid15341167 . (SOM 7,15 note), the name Saewold occurs on thirteen holdings 
in Domesday Book, probably representing six individuals, of whom the only the Oxfordshire Saewold was significant. The distinctive pattern of the Oxfordshire holdings suggests that they belonged to one individual. They were distributed to the east and wes
t
 of Oxford where Saewold, evidently a man of substance, held nine houses. Of the eleven holdings, no fewer than seven were held in 1086. Even two survivors with the same uncommon name in a small county is unlikely given that there were no others in the re
mainder of England. Of the four holdings held in 1066, three devolved upon the same tenant-in-chief and formed a close group with Little Minster, held by Saewold at both dates. The final property, Benson, was five miles from Rofford (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 1,1\tab 12 HIDES.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  The 
hide was a unit of assessment of land, of extent or liability, on arable or productive land, see SUS \{Appendix\}. Eleventh-century administrators tried to standardize the hide at 120 acres. The early eleventh-century 'County Hidage' (Maitland, }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Domesday Book and }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Beyond, p. 456) assigns 2400 hides to Oxfordshire, and Domesday totals slightly more, nearly half of them in multiples of five, the basis of old English military liability. At 120 acres each, these hides would account for more than half the surface of
 the county (about 470,000 acres) (JRM).}{\insrsid15341167 
\par \tab \tab }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Note that the 'Burghal Hidage' (according to the text in Robertson, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Anglo-Saxon Charters}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, Appendix II, no. 1, pp. 246-49, 494-96), a good transcription in the seventeenth century of a tenth-century manuscript, more reliable than that quoted by Maitland, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Domesday Book and }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Beyond, p. 503, 2400 hides) attributed 1500 hides to the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 burh }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 of Oxford (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab 50 PLOUGHS. A 'plough' included the oxen that pulled it, reckoned at eight (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab LORDSHIP. The mastery or dominion of the lord, including land, equipment and}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 men, often concentrated in a 'Manor Farm' or 'Lordship Farm' (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab VILLAGERS. Members of a }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 villa}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 tun}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ; the distinction between a large}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
town and small village was not yet in use (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab SMALLHOLDERS. Usually with more land than a cottager, less than a villager (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab JURISDICTION. The right to receive fines and other dues; from Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 socn}{\insrsid15341167  (}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
'resort to law or court'; 'right to exercise or levy legal right'), from Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 secan }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ('to seek', 'to visit'), comparable with Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 quaestio }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
('judicial enquiry') (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 1,2\tab 'HALF-WEEK'. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Helvewecha }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 is not otherwise recorded, and the form has doubtless}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
been influenced by Anglo-Norman phonology and orthography. Various constructions can be hazarded. Dr Morris proposes that it represents Old English hypothetical }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 healf-wicu }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
('half-week'), perhaps related to Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 wic-weorc }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ('weekly work', 'work-service due by the week') and referring to a half of such a due. He also noted that the second element could}{\insrsid15341167  }
{\cf1\insrsid15341167 represent Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 waecce }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ('a watch', 'a vigil'), but the sense of such a compound, and its}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
significance in the context, could not be ascertained. A third possibility would be}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 an otherwise unrecorded Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 healf-ewede}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , from Old English }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 ewed}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 e}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ) , }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 eow}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 e}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 d}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 eowd}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 e}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ) (Bosworth and Toller,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  Anglo-Saxon Dictionary}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, plus Supplement and Enlarged Addenda) 'a flock of sheep', hence 'half a flock of}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 sheep', perhaps a due paid on half the stock (JMcND).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab 16 HIDES. Evidently in Nuneham Courtenay (31,1) (JRM).}
{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 1,3\tab 
HIS 'GODSON' BALDWIN. Evidently Abbot Baldwin (B8 Taynton note) who held land elsewhere}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 from Westminster Abbey that King Edward had given to him for his own use while he was}{\insrsid15341167  }{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 a monk of Saint-Denis [in Paris]. It is possible that Kirtlington had at one time been granted to}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Baldwin and Saint-Denis. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Filiolu}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
s can certainly mean 'godson' [see }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Dictionary of Medieval Latin}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , under }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 filiolus}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  (2)], but may mean no more than 'dear son' (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 1,6\tab 17 BOORS. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Buri }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 literally renders Old English (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 ge}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 bur}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }
{\cf1\insrsid15341167 For the status and function of the (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 ge}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 bur }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
and other ranks of rural society as described in eleventh-century documents, see the 'Survey of the manor of Tidenham, Gloucestershire' in Robertson, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Anglo-Saxon }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Charters, no. cix pp. 204-207, 451-54, which distinguishes the (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 ge}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 neat }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 and the (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 ge}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 
bur}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 and the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Rectitudines Singularum Personarum }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 in Liebermann, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Gesetze der Angelsachsen}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ,
}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 i. pp. 444-45, which distinguishes }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 thegn}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 ge}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 neat}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 cotsetla }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 and (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 ge}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 bur }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 (JRM).
\par \tab \tab Most authorities avoid either an adequate translation or explanation. Domesday does equate the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 buri }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 with the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 coliberti }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
on three occasions (HAM 1,10;23. WOR 8,10a), where }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 vel coliberti }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 is interlined (see Maitland, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Domesday Book and Beyond}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, pp. 36-38). They appear in 14 shires. The drift of Maitland's argument is that they are less free than the smallholder and cottager, but often the possessors of two plough beasts (JRM).
\par \tab \tab The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 coliberti}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  have much in common with the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 coloni}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 . Later the (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 ge}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 bur}{
\cf1\insrsid15341167  emerges as a tenant farmer, with much in common with the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 colibertus}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  as a free peasant (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab BONDI THE FORESTER.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  Identical with Bondi the constable, Henry's predecessor elsewhere (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab \tab See 24,5 Bondi note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab KING'S LORDSHIP. That is, it became royal land when Harold became king, and therefore was so before King William 'crossed the sea' (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 1,7a\tab MARGINAL }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 R}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 . For }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 require}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , 'find out (how many ploughs there are)' (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab LEAGUE. Commonly reckoned at a mile and a half (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 1,7b\tab EARL TOSTI. Bloxham had evidently been held by Tosti before his exile in 1065, by Earl Edwin until his disgrace in the Ely revolt of 1071 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab RALPH D'OILLY. Signed a charter of Odo of Bayeux at Rouen, 30 Nov. 1074: }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Regesta Regum Anglo-Normannorum}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
75. He was presumably a relative of Robert d'Oilly (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab R[OBERT] D'OILLY. Sheriff of Warwickshire, Oxfordshire and perhaps Berkshire; builder and keeper of Oxford Castle (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 1,11\tab "VERNEVELD". }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 This represents a Southern English dialect form, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 v }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 for}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  f}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , of a place-name }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Fernefeld }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ('fern-field') from Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 fearn }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ('bracken', 'fern') (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab 
HERVEY [* THE COMMISSIONER *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 1,12\tab DOGS. In lieu of feeding and kennelling the 
king's hounds; no specialized word for hunting-dog was yet in use (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 1,13\tab KILLS. Manslaughter, in the first paragraph, is distinguished from premeditated murder in the last paragraph (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 2,1\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Presumably of Ivry, 'sworn brother' of Robert d'Oilly. See OXF 29 Roger note (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 3,1\tab 32s 6d. In the manuscript }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 iii den' }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 corrected to }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 vi den'}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 4,1\tab DUNSDEN.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  Opposite, and later absorbed into, the bishop's 60-hide holding of Sonning (BRK 3,1); together, these lands reached from the Chil
terns to Hampshire. From its source to the estuary, the greater part of both banks of the River Thames was church land, much of it since the seventh century, and most of the rest was the king's (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 5,1\tab BISHOP ROBERT [* OF HEREFORD *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 That is, Robert Lozinga, of Hereford (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab BISHOP LEOFRIC. Of Exeter, 1046-1073 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 6,1a\tab IN HIS REVENUE. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Firma}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , here used instead of the more usual }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 dominium}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 ('lordship'), emphasises the root meaning, sums paid in lieu of provisions in kind, here their source (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab STICK OF EELS. Normally 25 to a 'stick' (JRM).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 6,1b\tab BRICTEVA <OF BALDON>. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 6,4\tab INLAND. Old English equivalent of }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 dominium}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , but often distinguished therefrom; usually exempt from geld, the main royal tax (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab BISHOP REMIGIUS. Of Lincoln. Remigius of F\'e9
camp, promised the bishopric of Dorchester[-on-Thames] in 1066 in return for ships furnished to William, succeeded Bishop Wulfwin of Dorchester[-on-Thames] who died in 1067, and translated the see to Lincoln between 1072 and 1086; see }{\insrsid15341167 
Ellis, }{\i\insrsid15341167 General Introduction to Domesday Book}{\insrsid15341167 ,}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  i. p. 474 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 6,6\tab COLUMBAN.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  First abbot of the revived monastery of Eynsham, which had been restored and re-endowed by Bishop Remigius of Lincoln before 1086 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 6,7\tab [FROM A FISHERY]}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 . A mill or a fishery, one source of the eels, accidentally omitted; probably fishery, since mills are usually listed before meadows and pasture (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 6,9\tab JACOB. Or James (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 6,10\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab SAEWOLD <OF ROFFORD>. See B10 Saewold note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab ALFRED [* OF THAME *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 6,12\tab ROBERT [* SON OF WALKELIN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 6,13\tab "ANSGERED" [* OF VATIERVILLE *]. See HUN 8,3 "Ansgered" note.}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab RICHARD [* OF NEWARK *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Of Newark, whose heirs held Claydon by Cropredy (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab ROBERT [* SON OF WALKELIN *].}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 Son of Walkelin: Salter, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Eynsham Cartulary}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 37 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 6,15\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 6,16\tab SAEWOLD <OF ROFFORD>. See B10 Saewold note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab 
THE POPULATION has been omitted, presumably accidentally (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 6,17\tab [LITTLE] BALDON. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Rotuli Hundredorum}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. p. 724, cited by }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, i. p. 403, locate the 5 hides at Little Baldon, the 2 \'bd hides at Marsh Baldon. See 7,19 Baldon note (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab BRICTEVA <OF BALDON>. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,2\tab THE MARGINAL }{\i\insrsid15341167 rq' }{\insrsid15341167 and}{\i\insrsid15341167  r}{\insrsid15341167  abbreviate }{\i\insrsid15341167 require}{\insrsid15341167 , 'enqu
ire' into the words missing, presumably illegible or omitted in the return copied (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,3\tab ALNOTH [* OF KENT *]. Young Alnoth, or Alnoth of Kent, was a major landholder in 1066, with several very large holdings in Kent, Sussex, Surrey, Hampshire and Oxfo
rdshire. Apart from the scale of his individual manors he is nearly always distinguished by the title }{\i\insrsid15341167 cilt}{\insrsid15341167 
 (Young) and by the fact that every one of his holdings devolved upon the Bishop of Bayeux apart from the huge manor of Bramley (SUS 8,1) used to endo
w Battle Abbey, and a small property in Buckinghamshire (BUK 17,25) where an Alnoth the Kentishman was lord of the pre-Conquest holder, Edstan. It was probably the modest scale of this holding and its acquisition by a tenant-in-chief other than Odo which 
caused Peter Clarke to omit this Alnoth from his list: }{\i\insrsid15341167 English Nobility}{\insrsid15341167 
, pp. 237-38. However, this is almost certainly Alnoth of Kent. Apart from the description, 'Kentishman', his man Edstan did occur elsewhere on the fief of the Bishop of Bayeux (ESS 18,4
3), and the name is rare enough to make it likely that this is the same individual, despite the distance between the properties (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,4\tab ALNOTH OF KENT. See 7,3 Alnoth note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,5\tab TYTHROP.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  The }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  has Tythorp, in error. Tythrop is in Kingsey, in Buckinghamshire since 1933 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,6\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 Depicted and named on the Bayeux Tapestry, on the foraging party to Hastings from Pevensey immediately after the landing. His appearance with Vitalis, another of Odo of Bayeux followers, provides the basis of association of the tapestry with Odo (JRM).}{
\insrsid15341167 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab \tab }{\insrsid15341167 The name Wadard occurs on over forty holdings in Domesday Book, all probably held by one individual. All but a couple of properties in Kent were held as a tenant of the Bishop of Bayeux, the
 exceptions being held from St Augustine's Abbey which accommodated other of Odo's tenants. This singular distribution proves Wadard's identity, confirmed by the descent of his holdings to form the core of the barony of Cogges: Sanders, }{
\i\insrsid15341167 English baronies}{\insrsid15341167 , pp. 36-37; Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid15341167 Domesday People}{\insrsid15341167 , p. 444 (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,7\tab 
HERVEY [* THE COMMISSIONER *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,8\tab HERVEY [* THE COMMISSIONER *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,9\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab 4 SMALLHOLDERS. Here treated 
as in lordship, with the ploughs; see 7,29 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,10\tab REGINALD WADARD. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Perhaps [son of] Wadard; possibly [and] Wadard (JRM).}{\insrsid15341167 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab \tab See also 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,11\tab HE ALSO. See 7,10 Reginald note.
\par \tab \tab See also 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,12\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Son of Hubert, brother of Eudo the king's steward (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab \tab }{\insrsid15341167 A major tenant of the Bishop of Bayeux, and one of the wealthiest post-Conquest landowners despite holding nothing directly f
rom the Crown. Apart from two holdings in Kent, all his estates were held from the bishop which makes it possible to identify him with some confidence, particularly in view of the infrequency of the name elsewhere than on the fief of the Bishop of Bayeux.
 See Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid15341167 Domesday People}{\insrsid15341167 , p. 123 (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab 'SAXINTONE'. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Place-names of Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 203, and}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 the 
}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  locate this at }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Saxintone}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , a lost village in Bucknell in Ploughley Hundred (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,13\tab 
ALFRED [* NEPHEW OF WIGOT *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,14\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,15\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,16\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,17\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,18\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 7,19\tab [TOOT] BALDON. See }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Place-names of Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. pp.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 162-64, on the Baldons (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,21\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,22\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 7,12 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab POTTERY. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Potaria}{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 ,}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 added between the lines, translates }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 ollaria }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,24\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,25\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,27\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,28\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *].}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  Of Ivry
 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,29\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab 
1 VILLAGER. Exceptionally, treated as in lordship; so also 7,30 (JRM). [Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 uill}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 ano}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ]}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 is ablative after }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 cum}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  ('with'); the case of }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 bord' }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ('smallholders') may also be ablative.]}{\i\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,31\tab HERVEY [* THE
 COMMISSIONER *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,32\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,34\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,35\tab NETHERCOTT.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  The manuscript has }
{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 H }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 N}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,37\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,38\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,39\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 7,12 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,40\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 7,12 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,41\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,42\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,43\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,45\tab ADAM SON OF HUBERT. See 7,12 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,46\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab BARTON [EDE]. The former name of Sesswell Barton; see }{
\i\insrsid15341167 Place-names of Oxfordshire}{\insrsid15341167 , ii. p.}{\i\insrsid15341167  }{\insrsid15341167 249 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,47\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 7,12 Adam note (JP).}
{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,48\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,52\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 7,12 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,53\tab ADAM [* SON OF HUBERT *]. See 7,12 Adam note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,58\tab ANSKETIL [* OF GRAYE *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab ARCHBISHOP THOMAS. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Of York (JRM).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 7,60\tab 
HERVEY [* THE COMMISSIONER *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 7,65\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>. See 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 8,4\tab AS HE WISHED. More usually 'could go where
 he wished' or the like (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 9,3\tab SANDFORD[-ON-THAMES]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 That is, Sandford-on-Thames (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab BLAECMANN THE PRIEST.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  A wealthy priest, built St Andrews on the island at Abingdon and}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 endowed it with Sandford-on-Thames and Chilton and Leverton in Berkshire; he
 went into exile}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 with Harold's mother, Gytha: Stevenson, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Abingdon Chronicle}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. pp. 474, 484, and compare p. 490, and Stevenson, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Abingdon Chronicle}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. p. 283 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 9,4\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 9,6\tab WADARD <OF COGGES>'S SON. Possibly Reginald; see 7,10 Reginald note; s}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ee also 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 9,7\tab GILBERT [* THE MARSHAL *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Gilbert Marshall (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Marescal}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ): Stevenson, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Abingdon Chronicle}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. p. 5.}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 9,8\tab SWETING [* GRANDFATHER OF MATTHEW *].}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Sueting, avus Matthiae, in Wateleia i. hidam et dimidium }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ('Sweting, grandfather of Matthew, 1 \'bd
 hides in Wheatley'): Stevenson, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Abingdon Chronicle}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. p. 5. Domesday also omits 2 hides in Denton and 1 hide in Wheatley: Stevenson, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Abingdon Chronicle}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii
. p. 4. Elsewhere the Abingdon Chronicle several times describes a Domesday holding by the name of a village adjacent thereto (JRM).}{\insrsid15341167 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab \tab }{\insrsid15341167 The name Sweting is rare, occurring on only a handful of scattered and (with one exception) tiny holdings without tenuria
l or other associations with each other. This Sweting was the exception, a man of more substance (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 9,9b\tab 
A MAN-AT-ARMS [* ANSKETIL OF TADMARTON *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 9,10\tab 
ARNCOTT. Added at the foot of the column, exdented about half-an-inch to the left (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab HOLDING. Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 feoh}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , Latinized }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 feuum}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , continental }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 feudum}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, 'cattle', 'property' in general, as Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 pecunia}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 .}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Domesday }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 feudum }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
means either the total Holding of a lord, or land held in a particular way. Here land held from the abbot }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 de }{\i\f703\cf1\insrsid15341167 feudo \'eacclesi\'ea }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
is contrasted with the preceding land, which was and is in the abbey's lordship; in language, the contrast is between abbot and abbey, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 feudum }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 and }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 dominium}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 13,1\tab TAYNTON. See B8 Taynton note (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 14,2\tab CUTTESLOWE. So the modern spelling though Cutslow is an accepted alternative. There is a manuscript error, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Codeslam }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 for }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Codeslaw }{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab 
CANONS [* OF ST FRIDESWIDE'S *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 14,6\tab RANULF FLAMBARD. Later Bishop of Durham (JRM).}{
\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 15\tab EARL 
HUGH. Of Chester. Several of the men here listed held from him in Cheshire. The lands mentioned in this fief formed part of the honour of Chester into the thirteenth century. The details of the descent of the Oxfordshire lands which remained part of the h
onour of Chester are to be found in Farrer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Honors and Knights' }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Fees, ii. pp. 240-54 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 15,1\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *].}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 That is, Robert d'Oilly; so also 15,5 (JRM). [For the descent, see Farrer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Honors and Knights\rquote  Fees}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. pp. 244-48.]}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 15,2\tab WILLIAM [* SON OF NIGEL *].}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 Son of Nigel, ancestor of the Lacy earls of Lincoln, who served as constable to Earl Hugh in Cheshire, and at Domesday held the extensive Halton barony; see CHS 9,1-29 (JRM). [For the descent, see Farrer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Honors and Knights
\rquote  Fees}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. pp. 250-54.]}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 15,3\tab 
ROBERT [* SON OF HUGH *]. Lord of Malpas, Cheshire. For his identity and the descent of Tackley, see }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Farrer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Honors and Knights\rquote  Fees}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. pp. 242-44.}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 15,4\tab WALTER [* OF VERNON *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Of Vernon, who held land in four Cheshire villages from Earl Hugh : CHS 7,1-4 (JRM). [For the descent, see Farrer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Honors and Knights\rquote  Fees}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. pp. 248-50. Farrer calls him brother of William }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 de Verdun}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  [Verdun] presumably in error for }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Vernun}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 / }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Vernon}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  [Vernon].]}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 15,5\tab 
ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. See 15,1 Robert note. For the descent which was the same as that of South Weston (15,1), see Farrer, }{\i\insrsid15341167 Honors and Knights\rquote  Fees}{\insrsid15341167 , ii. pp. 244-248.}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab 
ARDLEY. Inserted in smaller and thinner letters after the column was written (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab DROGO [* OF LES ANDELYS *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Drogo is identified by royal charters transcribed in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Abingdon Chronicle}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, ii. pp. 67-70 as the subtenant of Robert d'Oilly, and tenant of Earl Hugh of Chester, at South Weston (15,1) and probably Ardley; his urban holdings (BRK B9) confirm that he is the Drogo holding from d'Oilly at 
Shirburn and probably also at Hardwick (28,9;16). He held Buscot in Berkshire from a Robert, possibly another of Earl Hugh's tenants, Robert son of Hugh (see BRK 18,2 Robert note), from whom a Drogo held 5 estates in Cheshire: see CHS 2,7 Drogo note. In v
iew of the tenurial links, it is improbable that this is a different man; see Keats-Rohan, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Domesday People}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , p. 179. (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 16\tab COUNT OF MORTAIN. Robert, King William's half-brother (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 16,2\tab MONKS OF ST PETER'S [* OF PREAUX *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Probably of Pr\'e9aux (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 17,5\tab PERCHES. See 18,1 furlong note (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 18\tab EARL AUBREY. See B6 Aubrey note (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 18,1\tab 1 FURLONG. Note that 'furlong'}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 and 'acre'}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 are sometimes areal measures and sometimes linear. Here}{\insrsid15341167  }{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 'furlong' represents an areal measure in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 una quarentena pasturae}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , and 'acre' a linear measure in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 graua duas acras in longitudine 7 in latitudine. }{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 This use of 'furlong' glosses Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 quarentena }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 (Anglicised }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 quarenten}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Oxford English Dictionary}{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 ) which, strictly, represents a square furlong, 220 yards by 220 yards or, as the name indicates, 40 perches by 40 perches (one standard English rod, pole or perch = 5 \'bd yards = 16 \'bd
 feet), containing 10 standard English acres in area. The word 'acre' represents (in English standard use as distinct from local variants like the Cheshi
re acre) an areal measure of 4,840 square yards, that is, 40 poles by 4 poles; and also a linear measure with two values, that is, either the acre-length (= 40 poles = 1 furlong) or the acre-breadth (= 4 poles = 22 yards). See also 19,1 (JRM).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab AZUR [* SON
 OF THORTH *]. A royal thane, named in BUK 1,7 and identifiable elsewhere as a predecessor of Earl Aubrey of Coucy. It is possible that he is the same individual as Azur <of Slindon> (SUS 9,87 Azur note) since their holdings in Wiltshire are intermingled 
with each other and both had very substantial manors in the county. There are, however, no tenurial or other associations to confirm a link. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15341167 English Nobility}{\insrsid15341167 
, p. 253, who does not include SOM 6,2, a substantial manor held by Azur }{\i\insrsid15341167 filius Torodi}{\insrsid15341167  (Exon), probably the same individual despite the different form of the surname (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 19\tab COUNT EUSTACE. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Of Boulogne, brother-in-law of King Edward (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 19,1\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 20\tab WALTER GIFFARD. Keeper of Windsor Castle (JRM).}{
\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 20,1\tab CAVERSHAM. Now in Berkshire; partly in Oxfordshire till 1911; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Place-names }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 of Berkshire, iii. p. 844 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 20,2\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *].}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  Of Bolbec, who held three Crowmarsh (20,3) houses in Wallingford: BRK B9 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 20,3\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 20,4\tab RALPH [* OF LANQUETOT *].}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 Probably of Lanquetot, who held land in Bedfordshire (BDF 16,9) which passed to the same heirs as Hempton; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 411 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 20,5\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 20,6\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 20,7\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab [* IN BODICOTE *].}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 The manuscript leaves a blank space for the place-name; the figures combine with Bodicote 17,6 and 34,3 to make a 5-hide holding; see }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 411 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 20,8\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 20,9\tab HUGH [* OF BOLBEC *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 21,1\tab "HUNESWORDE". }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Perhaps Chislehampton: }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 428 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 22\tab WILLIAM OF WARENNE. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 One of the greatest magnates, created Earl of Surrey 1087-88 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 22,2\tab 
BRIAN <OF CAVERSFIELD>. The name Brian occurs without a byname on a dozen holdings in Domesday Book. Given the uncommon name and the geographical and tenurial patterns, there were probably three i
ndividuals bearing the name, the tenant of William of Warenne in Buckinghamshire (BUK 15,2) and Oxfordshire (22,2) - possibly the ancestor of the Gargate family - being one of them. See also Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid15341167 Domesday People}{
\insrsid15341167 , p. 170-71 (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 24,1\tab HAVE 3 PLOUGHS. Latin }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 cum 
}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ('with'), corrected to }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 h'nt }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ('have'), but deletion mark omitted. The correction suggests that the difference was regarded as significant (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 24,3\tab BONDI [* THE CONSTABLE *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
See 24,5 Bondi note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 24,4\tab BONDI [* THE CONSTABLE *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 See 24,5 Bondi note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 24,5\tab BONDI [* THE CONSTABLE *]. Bondi is named as the constable on the fiefs of William son of Ansculf (BUK 17,9), the Count of Mortain (BUK 12,29), and Henry of Ferrers (BUK 27,1), though named Boding the constable in Henry's cas
e. This was certainly Bondi, however, since Henry succeeded him in four other counties and laid claim in a fifth as Bondi's successor (GLS 31,2). Apart from other the links through the Count of Mortain and William son of Ansculf, it is probable that the B
ondi who held manors valued at over \'a3
10 was, in most, of not all cases, the constable; and his status as a lord of men identifies him at Colemore in Hampshire (HAM 57,2), and therefore probably on the adjacent holding at Empshott (HAM 62,1). Finally, the Bo
ndi who preceded Countess Judith in several of her holdings in Northamptonshire may also have been the constable. There can be little doubt that the Countess had only one predecessor named Bondi, five of his seven holdings being centred on Earls Barton, h
eld with full jurisdiction, the whole complex worth \'a3
16. Its status certainly befitted someone of the constable's status, and Earls Barton was just a couple of miles from his manor at Ecton, acquired by Henry of Ferrers. Some further, if slight support, for
 this identification is supplied by Orderic Vitalis, according to whom Earl Waltheof granted the manor of Barnack to Crowland Abbey, a gift later defeated by 'the malice of the Normans' (}{\i\insrsid15341167 Ecclesiastical History}{\insrsid15341167 
, ed. Chibnall, ii. pp 344-45). Barnack was hel
d in Domesday Book by William son of Ansculf, as noted above the constable's predecessor elsewhere. He may, therefore, have stepped into Waltheof's shoes in those cases, too, Waltheof being the first to succeed to those estates of the constable. See also 
Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15341167 English Nobility}{\insrsid15341167 , pp. 266-67, whose list omits ESS 29,5. HAM 57,2. 62,1. IoW9,15. NTH 36,2. 56,15-18;37-38;53. See also 1,6 Bondi note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 24,6\tab 'ASH' ... JOINED ... TO HIS LAND IN GLOUCESTERSHIRE. }{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 Henry's only Gloucestershire holding (GLS 59,1) was at Lechlade (SU2199) on the Oxfordshire border, opposite Little Faringdon (SP2201) and Kelmscott (SU2499). 'Ash' probably lay nearby (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 24,7\tab ABBEY ^[OF WINCHCOMBE]^. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Winchcombe (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 27,3\tab 
`BROMSCOTT' AND `PEMSCOTT'. Neither appears on Ordnance Survey maps and though the names are still known there are no settlements with these names near Alvescot now. See }{\i\insrsid15341167 Place-names of Oxfordshire}{\insrsid15341167 , ii. p.}{
\i\insrsid15341167  }{\insrsid15341167 298 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 27,7\tab CADIO <OF ASTON>. See STS 11,9 Cadio note.}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 27,10\tab GILBERT <OF ASTON>. Gilbert was a Staffordshire tenant of Robert of Stafford, identified by Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid15341167 Domesday People}{\insrsid15341167 
, p. 215, who does not include this Oxford property although it was held by the only other Gilbert on the 116 tenanted holdings of Robert of Stafford (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 28\tab ROBERT D'OILLY. See 1,7 Robert note (JRM).}{
\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 28,2\tab WIGOT [* OF WALLINGFORD *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Of Wallingford. Predecessor of Miles Crispin and Robert d'Oilly. Kinsman and butler to King Edward, made his peace with King William; see Freeman }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Norman Conquest}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , iv. Appendix C; Harmer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Anglo-Saxon Writs}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 577 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 28,7\tab DRAYTON. Hardly the place-name Treton in Bruern (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Place-names of Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 337), as }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 
VCH Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 413, and, apparently, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , p. 324. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Place-names of Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. p. 337,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 identifies with Drayton (near Banbury and Wroxton) in Bloxham Hundred (compare 57,1). }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Domesday Gazetteer}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, p. 324, states that Drayton St Leonard (near Dorchester-on-Thames) is not in Domesday Book (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 28,8\tab BENEFICE. A rare Domesday instance of an ecclesiastical }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 beneficium}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 . Compare Domesday Derbyshire [DBY 3,6]: 'King William gave a manor to Burton Abbey }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 
pro suo beneficio}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 '.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 The meaning could be 'for his well-being' as well as 'for their benefice' (JRM). [However, now see DBY 3,6 benefice note.]}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab ST PETER'S. In-the-East, Oxford (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 28,9\tab 
DROGO [* OF LES ANDELYS *]. A space separates Robert's lordship land from his men's land (JRM).
\par \tab \tab See 15,5 Drogo note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 28,12\tab ROGER [* OF QUESNAY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab HEYFORD. The Oxfordshire and North
amptonshire entries [NTH 4,36], totalling 20 hides, include Upper and Lower Heyford (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 28,16\tab 
DROGO [* OF LES ANDELYS *]. See 15,5 Drogo note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 28,20\tab ROGER [* OF QUESNAY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 28,22\tab ROBERT [* SON OF WALTER *].Named in BUK 19,3, as a tenant of Robert d'Oilly, identified elsewhere by Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid15341167 Domesday People}{\insrsid15341167 , p. 387 (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab HOLDS. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Ten}{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 [}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 et}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ] accidentally repeated (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 28,24\tab SAINTE-SUSANNE. In Maine, its castle was successfully held by Hubert of Beaumont against King William's siege from 1083 to 1086. Compare Douglas, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 William the Conqueror}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ,}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 p. 242, with reference to the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Annals of Vend\'f4me}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  cited from Halphen, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Le Comte d' Anjou}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , p. 65 (JRM).}{
\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 29\tab ROGER OF IVRY. 'Sworn brother' of Robert d'Oilly (Salter, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Oseney Cartulary}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , iv. p. 1, cited in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, i. p. 383), with whom he held much land jointly in Domesday (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 29,11\tab [CHILWORTH]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 A space is left blank in the manuscript for the place-name, which should be either Coombe (Wood) at SP5904 in Cuddesdon, or Chilworth (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Oxfordshire}{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 415); with Chilworth (56,1), this entry makes a 10-hide holding (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 29,13\tab BROOKHAMPTON. So }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Place-names of Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 154 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 29,16\tab 
WADARD <OF COGGES>'S SON. Possibly Reginald; see 7,10 Reginald note; s}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ee also 7,6 Wadard note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 29,17\tab 
[***]. The manuscript leaves a space, equivalent to 15 or 20 letters, where the details of the villagers should be (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 29,18\tab THE KING'S FIRST HOLDING. The meaning is not known (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 29,20\tab IN THE FIRST "GADRE" HUNDRED.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  See \{Introduction: Hundreds\} (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 29,21\tab IN THE SECOND "GADRE" HUNDRED. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Inserted after instead of before the entry, directed to its proper place by transposition signs (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 29,23\tab WOLVERCOTE.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  The boundary between the Wootton and Headington Hundreds is here assumed to be between Wolvercote and Walton (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 30,1\tab OIDELARD [* THE STEWARD *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 He also held from Ralph in Berkshire, Hampshire, Herefordshire, Shropshire and Wiltshire (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab \tab The name Oidelard occurs thirteen times in Domesday Book, probably repres
enting two individuals, one a tenant of Eustace the sheriff, the other holding land from Ralph of Mortimer in six counties. A Oidelard holding from St Augustine's (KEN 7,19), identified in the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Excerpta}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 as a steward, may be the same man: Keats-Rohan, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Domesday People}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , p. 312, suggests he was Ralph's steward (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 31,1\tab 80s \{\{\'a34\}\}. Repeats and explains 80s (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 32,1\tab NUNEHAM [COURTENAY]. In the hundreds of Headington (1,2). The Abingdon Chronicle (Stevenson, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Abingdon Chronicle}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. p. 9), under the heading }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 De 
Niweham}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  ('concerning Nuneham'), reports that Leofwin [}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Leouinus}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ], elsewhere termed Leofwin of Nuneham, sold 'from his inheritance (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 de suo patrimonio}{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 )}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 to the abbot }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 quandam villam Niweham ... trans flumen Tamisiae e regione monasterii Abbendoniae sitam }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 (' a v
ill, Nuneham, ... situated across the Thames outside the area of the monastery of Abingdon'), while the king was abroad, and Odo of Bayeux, who then governed England, confirmed the purchase. On Odo's fall, his acts were cancelled, and Nuneham was taken fr
om the abbey and given 'to someone else (}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 alteri}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 )'.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Hakon, in Oxfordshire Countess Judith's predecessor [OXF 53], had presumably held from Leofwin before 1066; and Leofwin's sale to the abbey may well have been made many years earlier, to take effect on his 
death. The identification of this Domesday Nuneham might be in doubt, if it were not for the entry}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 in 1,2. Domesday gives no hint of these transactions (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 34,1\tab 
THORGOT [* LAG *]. Thorgot Lag was a wealthy Anglo-Saxon magnate, listed among those with fu
ll jurisdictional rights in Yorkshire (YKS C36) and Lincolnshire (LIN T5), and one of the principal predecessors of Robert of Tosny and his son Berengar here as elsewhere. See Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15341167 English Nobility}{\insrsid15341167 
, p. 344, whose list omits dependencies and also NTT 21,3, perhaps because it was without value (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 34,2\tab THORGOT [* LAG *]. See 34,1 Thorgot note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 35\tab MILES CRISPIN.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 Presumably related to Gilbert Crispin, Abbot of Westminster; of a wealthy and noble Norman family; see Anselm, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Epistulae}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i,18 [in Schmitt, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Anselmi Opera Omnia}{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 ; translated in Fr\'f6hlich, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Letters of St Anselm}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, no. 22 pp. 113-14]. Miles Crispin and Robert d'Oilly both held lands that had been Wigot's; Miles is said to have married Robert's daughter: }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 383 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 35,1\tab WIGOT [* 
OF WALLINGFORD *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 35,6\tab THORKIL [* OF WARWICK *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 35,11\tab ENGELRIC [* THE PRIEST *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 35,12\tab REGINALD HOLDS ... FROM MILES. A space, not shown by Farley, separates Miles' land from his men's land (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 35,18\tab WIGOT [* OF WALLINGFORD *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 35,19\tab RALPH [* OF QUESNAY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab "BESI" <OF CALVERTON>. }{
\i\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid15341167 Besi}{\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid15341167 , }{\i\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid15341167 Bisi}{\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid15341167 , }{\i\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid15341167 Bosi}{\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid15341167 
, Scandinavian forms of uncertain etymology, p}{\insrsid15341167 ossibly from Old Danish }{\i\insrsid15341167 B\u511\'3fsi}{\insrsid15341167 , Old Swedish }{\i\insrsid15341167 B\u511\'3fse}{\insrsid15341167 : von Feilitzen, }{\i\insrsid15341167 
Pre-Conquest Personal Names of Domesday Book}{\insrsid15341167 , p. 201 (ARR).
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab \tab Although the }{\cf1\charscalex107\insrsid15341167 
etymology is uncertain, t}{\insrsid15341167 enurial and other relationships suggest that these forms, which occur seven times in Domesday Book, are variants of a single name borne by two individuals. An Oxfordshire }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Besi }{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 (35,19)}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 was a predecessor of Miles Crispin who was also preceded on two of his holdings by a }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Bisi}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  (BUK 23,32) and a }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 B
osi}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  (BRK 33,8), making it highly probable that all three forms represent one individual. Miles' predecessor in Buckinghamshire is described as a royal thane, as is the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Bisi}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 who preceded Hugh of Bolbec (BUK 26,8). The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Bisi}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  who preceded William son of Ansculf (BUK 17,21) was also an overlord and a close neighbour of the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Bisi}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 on the Crispin fief. All these holdings were therefore probably held by one man. The }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Besi}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , man of Alsi, with two small holdings }{\insrsid15341167 in neighbouring vills in }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Hartismere Hundred in Suffolk, is likely to be a second individual (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 35,22\tab AMALRIC [* OF DREUX *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 35,26\tab ALFRED [* NEPHEW OF WIGOT *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 35,31\tab ALFRED [* NEPHEW OF WIGOT *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab WIGOT [* OF WALLINGFORD *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 38,1\tab ROBERT [* OF ARMENTIERES *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Of Armenti\'e8res, held a Ewelme (38,2) house in Wallingford (BRK B9). He witnessed Gilbert's gift of his London house to Abingdon:}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Stevenson, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Abingdon Chronicle}{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. pp. 15-16. His heirs held much of Gilbert's land (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab 
TONNI <OF LUSBY>. The name Tonni occurs on twenty holdings, probably representing two or three individuals. In the bulk of these holdings Tonni was the predecessor of either Gilbert of Ghent or William of Percy and almost certainly the sam
e individual in both cases since Gilbert had claims on the properties in the hands of William of Percy (LIN CS30-31). See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15341167 English Nobility}{\insrsid15341167 
, pp. 350-51, who also assigns the Yorkshire holding of Appleton to this Tonni (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 38,2\tab ROBERT [* OF ARMENTIERES *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab ULF [* FENMAN *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 39\tab GEOFFREY DE MANDEVILLE. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
A magnate, ancestor of the Earls of Essex (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 39,2\tab 
SASWALO [* OF BOUVILLE *]. Saswalo and his son William were both tenants of
 Geoffrey de Mandeville, Saswalo in Berkshire, Essex, and Oxfordshire. The name is sufficiently rare for there to be little doubt that the tenurial link provides a secure identification: Geoffrey cannot have had two tenants with this name. See also Keats 
Rohan, }{\i\insrsid15341167 Domesday People}{\insrsid15341167 , p. 417 (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 39,3\tab SASWALO [* OF BOUVILLE *]. See 39,2 Saswalo note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab 
ESGER [* THE CONSTABLE *]. The name Esger occurs on over 130 holdings but may represent only six individuals. Of these, by far the most important was Esger the
 constable, predecessor of Geoffrey de Mandeville on the bulk of his holdings. So pronounced was the descent of Esger's holdings to Geoffrey that one way the Domesday scribe had of casting doubt on the legality of Geoffrey's tenure of any property was to 
s
tate 'it was not of Esger's Holding' or words to that effect (ESS 30,2. SUF 32,1. SUR 25,1;3). Where not explicitly identified as the constable, therefore, Geoffrey's succession to the holdings of an Esger, or frequently of his men, plausibly identifies E
s
ger as the constable. On two other holdings where Esger is not explicitly identified as the constable, his man is identified elsewhere as a man of the constable (HRT 17,10. 33,13;18-19), or another of his men held land in the vill concerned (CAM 22,8. 32,
16), making the identification more likely than not, particularly as no other Esger can be identified as a lord of other men. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15341167 English Nobility}{\insrsid15341167 
, pp. 243-49, who omits holdings at CAM 32,11. ESS 90,28. NTH 45,8 and SUF 32,4-5 (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 42\tab SWEIN T}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 HE SHERIFF. Of Essex, son of Robert son of Wymarc (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 43,1\tab LITTLESTOKE. Littlestoke Farm known also as Stoke Marmion: }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Place-names of Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 45. See also}{\insrsid15341167  }{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Place-names of Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 49, for North Stoke and }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Place-names of Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p.}{
\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 156, for South Stoke now in Dorchester Hundred (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 44\tab GUY D'OILLY. Brother of Robert; see Foster, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Lincoln Cathedral Registrum Antiquissimum}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 8; }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 386 (JRM).
}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 45,1\tab WALTER [* SON OF *] POYNTZ.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  'Son of 'omitted; so also commonly with Robert Fafiton as in HUN 25 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab SAEWOLD <OF ROFFORD>. See B10 Saewold note (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 45,2\tab SAEWOLD <OF ROFFORD>. See B10 Saewold note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 45,3\tab "ALWOLDESBERIE". }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Between Alvescot and Kencot, according to the }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Rotuli Hundredorum}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. p. 699, cited}{\insrsid15341167  in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 421 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 

\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab SAEWOLD <OF ROFFORD>. See B10 Saewold note (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 46\tab WILLIAM [SON OF] LEOFRIC. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
'Son of' probably omitted; see 45,1 Walter note (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 49\tab REINBALD [* THE PRIEST *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}
{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 50\tab ROBERT SON OF MURDOCH.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
 See Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , p. 190 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 51,1\tab "BISPESDONE".}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Old English }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Bisceopes-dune}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ('at bishop's-down') (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 52\tab 
BENZELIN [* THE ARCHDEACON *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 52,1\tab 
LILLINGSTONE [LOVEL]. In Buckinghamshire since 1844 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 53\tab COUNTESS JUDITH. Daughter of King William's half-sister, Adelaide, and of Lambert, Count of Lens; widow of Earl Waltheof (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 54\tab CHRISTINA. Sister of Prince Edgar and grand-daughter of King Edmund Ironside; a nun at Romsey in 1086 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 54,1\tab [* EARL *] ALGAR. Earl Algar was the son of Earl Leofric and Countess Godiva, and father of earls Edwin and Morcar; he was Earl of East Anglia (1051-1057) and of Mercia (1057-62). He was probably dead by 1063, see Harmer, }{
\i\insrsid15341167 Anglo-Saxon}{\insrsid15341167  }{\i\insrsid15341167 Writs}{\insrsid15341167 , pp. 546-47. His stormy political career is documented in Maund, }{\i\insrsid15341167 Ireland, Wales and England}{\insrsid15341167 .
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab \tab 
Although the name Algar is a common one, the earl can be identified with reasonable confidence on a number of manors where his title is omitted. The Algar who held royal manors in Derby (DBY B14
. 1,8), Essex (ESS 1,9;12-13) and Suffolk (SUF 1,121) is almost certainly the earl (though disguised as Earl Edgar in ESS 1,9), as is the Algar who held the valuable (\'a3
25) manor of Broadwell (54,1), probably also once a royal manor since it was in the hands of Princess Christina in 1086. The Algar of NTT 30,26 is also shown to he the earl by its dependency on NTT 1,59-60. See also Clarke, }{\i\insrsid15341167 
English Nobility}{\insrsid15341167 , pp. 206-212, whose list omits some dependencies and CAM 14,27. 26,17;19;26. ESS 41,2. 82,1.}{\insrsid2847371  }{\insrsid15341167 GLS 34,2. NTT 27,1. (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 55\tab [* AZELINA, *] ROGER OF IVRY'S WIFE.}{
\cf1\insrsid15341167  Azelina, daughter of Hugh of Grandmesnil (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 55,2\tab ALWY. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Perhaps in error for Alwin, as in 55,1 (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab COMMENDATION. Here probably a provisional right. King Edward in his last days had granted his birthplace, Islip, to Westminster Abbey (Harmer, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Anglo-Saxon Writs}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, pp. 103-104, see p. 522); it was Westminster land from 1204, and possibly also between Azelina's death and 1165. Islip and Oddington adjoined each other and Charlton, held by Azelina's husb
and from her father. Commendation may here mean a title pending decision}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 on Westminster's claim (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 56\tab THIS CHAPTER is entered at the foot of folio 160b in three lines (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab [LAND OF HASCOIT MUSARD].}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  A Breton, landholder in many counties (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 57\tab THORKIL [* OF WARWICK *]. Of Warwick (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 57,1\tab DRAYTON. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 Drayton near Wroxton and Banbury, in Bloxham Hundred; compare 28,7 (JRM).}{\insrsid15341167 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab \tab The entry is mistakenly duplicated in STS 12,31 where it follows another Oxfordshire entry (for Sibford Gower), reading "Turstin", in error for Thorkil (JRM). [See STS 12,31 entry note.]}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 58\tab RICHARD ^[THE ARTIFICER]^.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Ingania }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
carries the double senses of 'ingenious, crafty', and of an 'engineer', a designer or maker of engines, commonly of war. Richard and William }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Ingania}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , possib
ly related, held land in several counties, some of it connected with forests and hunting; much of the evidence is listed in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Northamptonshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, i. p. 294. 'Engayne' became a hereditary family name, but probably originated as 'master of the king's ordnance' (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 58,11\tab 
HERVEY [* THE COMMISSIONER *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 58,12\tab HERVEY [* THE COMMISSIONER *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab THESE }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
TWO LANDS. Bix and Ibstone (JRM).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 58,13\tab THIS ENTRY is added at the foot of the column, directed to its proper place by transposition signs (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab 
HERVEY [* THE COMMISSIONER *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 58,18\tab WEALD.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  Formerly West Weald; so 
}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 423. }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Place-names of Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , ii. p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 317, prefers Claywell (SP3505)}{
\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 formerly 'East Weald' (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 58,19\tab SAEWOLD <OF ROFFORD>. See B10 Saewold note (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 58,24\tab LEOFWIN [* OF NUNEHAM *]. See Williams, }{\i\insrsid15341167 The English and the Norman Conques}{\insrsid15341167 t, pp. 117-18; Keats-Rohan, }{\i\insrsid15341167 Domesday Peopl}{\insrsid15341167 e, p. 290 (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 58,25\tab LEOFWIN [* OF NUNEHAM *]. See 58,24 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab WARLAND. Old English tax-paying land, contrasting with 
}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 inland}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 ; very rare in Domesday (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 58,28\tab ALSI [* OF FARINGDON *]. Note to be supplied (JP).
}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 58,29\tab ALSI [* OF FARINGDON *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 58,30\tab LEOFWIN [* OF NUNEHAM *]. See 58,24 Leofwin note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 58,31\tab SAEWOLD <OF ROFFORD>. See B10 Saewold note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 58,32\tab SAEWOLD <OF ROFFORD>. See B10 Saewold note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 58,33\tab SAEWOLD <OF ROFFORD>. See B10 Saewold note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 58,34\tab SAEWOLD <OF ROFFORD>. See B10 Saewold note (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 58,37\tab ALWY [* SON OF ALSI OF FARINGDON *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 59\tab EARL WILLIAM. See B7 William note (JRM).}{
\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 59,1\tab GILBERT OF BRETTEVILLE.}{\cf1\insrsid15341167  So Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , p. 75. Breteuil, as }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
, i. pp. 388, 424, is possible but the}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 spellings seem to differ (JRM). [See HAM 43 Gilbert note.]}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 59,3\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 59,4\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 59,5\tab ANSKETIL [* OF GRAYE *]. }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
Of Graye (59,14; see Tengvik, }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Old English Bynames}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , p. 90). He probably named Rotherfield Greys, though}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 
the place-name addition is not attested before the thirteenth century (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 59,6\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 59,7\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 59,8\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 59,9\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 59,10\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 59,19\tab ANSKETIL [* OF GRAYE *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 \tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 59,20\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 59,21\tab ROGER [* OF IVRY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 \tab ALWY [* SON OF ALSI OF FARINGDON *]. }{
\cf1\insrsid15341167 Son of Alsi of Faringdon: Public Record Office: Augmentation Office: Miscellaneous Books, p. 46 no. 124, cited in }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 VCH Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p. 388 note 3 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab \'a37. Perhaps an error. The figure seems too high for 1 hide; possibly 7s since no}{\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 people, and little meadow are entered (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 59,28\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\cf1\insrsid15341167 \tab 
'INGHAM'. Ingham House, not on Ordnance Survey maps. See }{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167 Place-names of Oxfordshire}{\cf1\insrsid15341167 , i. p.}{\i\cf1\insrsid15341167  }{\cf1\insrsid15341167 96 (JRM).}{\cf1\insrsid11107320 
\par }\pard\plain \s20\ql \fi-1080\li1080\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx1080\tx1440\nooverflow\faauto\rin0\lin1080\itap0\pararsid11107320 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\insrsid15341167 59,29\tab ROBERT [* D'OILLY *]. Note to be supplied (JP).}{
\insrsid11107320 
\par }{\insrsid15341167 
\par }}